Historic,  archived  document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


P 


A 

V  E 


Y 


D 


Talk  "by  Chas.  D.  Lewis,  Assistant  Director,  Ho r the 
Division,  Agricultural  Adjustment  Administration” 
"before  potato  growers  at  Orono,  Maine,  during  Farm” 
Home  Week,  on  March  30,  1938. 


^  APR  2  9  193C 


I  sj  V>  O 

c>.  Department  ox  /.  'r.\: 


Iti>ro  I 


The  farmers  in  Maine  on  the  whole  are  interested  in  reaching  as  nearly 
as  possible  three  principal  goals.  First,  the  production  of  a  supply  of 
agricultural  commodities  that  will  furnish  consumers  all  they  can  use  at  a 
fair  price.  Second,  the  assurance  of  a  fair  return  on  the  capital  invested 
and  management  applied  to  the  farms  in  Maine.  And  third,  proper  use  and 
care  of  the  farm  plant,  that  is  the  land,  buildings  and  equipment,  so  that 
the  first  two  objectives  may  always  be  assured  in  the  future. 

.Hone  of  these  objectives  can  be  accomplished  by  Maine  farmers  alone 
in  1938.  They  must  have  the  cooperation  of,  and  they  must  cooperate  with, 
other  farmers  throughout  the  country. 

The  farmers  in  this  country  today  have  an  enormous  machine  so  con¬ 
structed  by  the  Congress  of  the  United  States  (through  the  several  Acts, 
such  as  the  Acts  creating  land-grant  colleges,  experiment  stations,  extension 
service  and  Smith-Hughes  schools,  the  Marketing  Agreement  Act  of  1937,  Soil 
Conservation  and  Domestic  Allotment  Act,  the  1938  Agricultural  Adjustment 
Act,)  that  it  can  be  operated  by  the  farmers  so  as  to  go  a  long  way  toward 
accomplishing  these  objectives.  Similarly,  in  my  judgment,  this  machine  will 
not  be  successful  in  accomplishing  these  objectives  unless  it  is  operated 
through  the  cooperation  of  the  farmers  of  this  country. 

You  people  are  interested  in  potatoes.  Let  us  examine  the  things  that 
seem  to  have  prevented  potato-growers  in  this  country  from  reaching  the 
objectives  which  we  have  set  up.  A  rather  casual  examination  of  the  data' 
contained  in  the  1937  Yearbook  of  the  Department  of  Agriculture  indicates 


2 


that  during  the  past  ten  or  fifteen  years  the  wholesale  price  of  potatoes  on 
the  New  York  market  has  varied  from  58  cents  a  “bushel  to  $2.49  a  “bushel. 

During  this  period,  with  one  exception,  whenever  the  total  quantity  of 
potatoes  produced  in  the  country  was  above  375,000,000  bushels  the  price  was 
below  $1.00,  and  whenever  it  was  below  375,000,000  bushels  the  price  was 
above  $1.00.  I  don't  believe  we  are  assuring  the  consumer  of  this  country 
an  adequate  supply  of  potatoes  at  a  fair  price  to  him  when  we  produce  so 
many  potatoes  that  the  price  is  forced  down  to  a  point  where  during  the  next 
year  or  two  farmers  are  able  to  grow  only  300,000,000  to  350,000,000  bushels 
of  potatoes  and  the  price  to  the  consumer  goes  up  to  4  times  what  it  was 
when  the  crop  was  unusually  large  and  2  to  2  l/2  times  what  anyone  would  con¬ 
sider  to  be  a  fair  price. 

Unfortunately,  the  extremely  low  wholesale  prices  in  New  York  may  not 
in  all  cases  be  passed  along  to  the  consumer.  The  probability  is  that  the 
consumer  pays  a  fair  cost  for  handling  a  small  crop  and  a  rather  dispropor¬ 
tionately  large  cost  for  handling  a  large  crop. 

We  also  find  in  the  Yearbook  that  during  the  same  ten  or  fifteen-year 
period  farmers  averaged  to  receive  from  40  cents  to  $1.66  a  bushel  for 
potatoes;  that  almost  without  exception  the  low  prices  occurred  when  the 
total  production  was  more  than  375,000,000  bushels;  that  high  prices  occurred 
when  the  total  production  was  less  than  375,000,000  bushels;  and  the  gross 
farm  value  of  potatoes  in  this  country  during  the  same  period  varied  from 
$147,000,000  to  $491,000,000.  I  can  not  believe  that  the  owners  and  operators 
of  potato  farms  throughout  this  country  consider  such  a  wide  variation  in  the 
value  of  their  crop  desirable  unless  they  are  more  interested  in  speculation 


3 


than  they  are  in  production.  Incidentally,  I  was  told  "by  a  man  of  long  ex¬ 
perience  in  the  stock  market  that  out  of  every  100  men  who  attempt  to  make  a 
"killing"  on  the  stock  market  about  3  survive.  That  same  principle  may  hold 
true  for  those  farmers  who  try  to  make  a  "killing"  out  of  the  wide  fluctua¬ 
tion  in  potato  prices. 

How  it  seems  from  what  I  have  said  that  there  is  a  definite  relation¬ 
ship  between  the  total  quantity  of  potatoes  produced  in  this  country  and  the 
average  wholesale  price  at  Hew  York  and  the  average  price  the  farmer  receives. 
Apparently  a  crop  of  350,000,000  to  375,000,000  or  380,000,000  bushels  will 
supply  the  consumer  with  all  the  potatoes  he  can  use  at  a  reasonable  price  and 
will  return  the  producer  a  price  that  will  enable  him  to  maintain  his  farm 
plant  and  live  respectably.  If  that  is  true  why  should  we  have  crops  ranging 
from  less  than  300,000,000  bushels  to' more  than  400,000,000  bushels?  Potatoes 
are  produced  all  over  this  country  and  produced  commercially  in  widely 
separated  areas  so  that  the  effects  of  weather  on  the  crop  in  any  particular 
area  are  usually  pretty  well  offset  by  opposite  effects  in  other  areas.  As 
a  matter  of  fact,  the  national  average  yield  of  potatoes  since  1S&4  has  ranged 
from  100  bushels  per  acre  to  124  bushels  per  acre  or  only  about  12  percent 
up  and  down  from  the  average,  while  total  production  has  varied  between  18 
percent  and  20  percent  from  the  average,  and  acreage  has  varied  from  2,800,000 
to  3,600,000  or  about  12  percent  up  and  down  from  the  average  of  3,200,000. 

We  can't  do  anything  about  the  weather,  but  we  can  stabilize  the 
acreage.  In  fact,  the  colleges  and  extension  services  throughout  this 
country  have  been  advising  farmers  to  stabilize  their  acreage  for  years  but 
I  have  heard  that  the  reason  farmers  don't- take  this  advice  is  because  each 
farmer  acting  independently  thinks  the  other  fellow  will  take  the  advice  so 


-  4  - 

he  will  do  just  the  opposite.  The  stabilization. program  for  potatoes',  this 
year  is  simply  designed  to  pay  the  cooperating  farmer  for  the  sacrifice  he 
makes  in  stabilizing  the  acreage.  In  other  words,  it  assures  him  that  he  will 
have  as  much  money  next  fall  as  though  he  had  grown  his  full  acreage  of 
potatoes,  and  of  course  if  substantially  all  of  the  farmers  cooperate  the 
price  of  potatoes  may  be  somewhat  improved  and.  thereby  the  farmer  benefits 
both  in  a  better  price  for  what  he  produces  and  assurance  of  an  income  equal 
to  what  he  would  have  had  had  he  not  cooperated  in  the  program. 

To  put  the  proposition  more  specifically,  the.  farmer  who  cooperates 
in  the  1938  Agricultural  Conservation  Program  in  stabilizing  potato  acreage 
is  assured  of  an  income  about  equal  to  that  he  would  have  had  had  he  grown 
his  full  acreage,  assured  of  a  price  equal  to  or  better  than  that  he  would 
have  received  had  it  not  been  for  the  program,  is  saved  the  cost  of  planting, 
cultivating,  spraying,  harvesting  and  selling  the  acreage  he  diverts,  and 
is  enabled  to  contribute  to  the  preservation  and  conservation  of  dand-not 
devoted  to  potatoes. 

It  looks  as  if  potato  farmers  throughout  the  country. would  cooperate 
wholeheartedly  in  this  program,  with  the  possible  exception  of  the  very 
early  growers,  who  felt  they  had  to  make  their  plans  before  they  felt  sure 
of  just  what  the  program  would  be. 

Before  you  have  an  opportunity  to  ask  the  question  as  to  what  the 
situation  will  be  if  we  have  another  yield  in  1338  such  as  we  had  in  1937, 

I  would  like  to  say  first  that  an  analysis  of  yields  of  potatoes  over  a 
50-year  period  in  the  United  States  fails  to  show  but  one  instance  when 
there  were  two  successive  years  of  high  yields.  So  it  is  probably  fair  to 


5 


say  that  there  is  only  a  50  to  1  chance  that  we  will  see  a  high  potato  yield- 
in  1938.  However,  if  such  yield,  occurs,  then  the  Surplus  Removal  and  Market¬ 
ing  Agreement  Programs  are  available  for  your  vise.  Mr.  Lawrence  Myers  has 
explained  in  a  much  better  way  than  I  could  the  way  these  programs  may  be 
used  by  farmers  in  case  they  are  needed. 

In  closing  I  want  to  get  back  to  where  I  started  and  repeat  that  the 
farmers  in  this  country  have  the  machine  designed  for  their  use  in  solving 
many  of  their  agricultural  problems.  It  will  work  successfully  if  they 
operate  it  themselves.  In  my  judgment  it  can  not  work  successfully  unless 
they  do.  If  it  works  successfully  it  should  result  in  increasing  efficiency 
in  production,  greatly  improved  care  of  our  agricultural  resources,  a  more 
stabilized  supply  of  basic  agricultural  commodities  that  will  result  in  fairer 
prices  both  to  producer  and  consumer,  improved  marketing  conditions,  increased 
use  of  agricultural  products  through  the  use  of  such  products  for  relief 
purposes  and  industrial  uses,  and  other  important  improvements  in  our  rural 
economic  and  social  life.  As  community,  county  and  State  committeemen,  whose 
principal  source  of  income  is  from  the  farm,  really  get  hold  of  this  machine 
and  come  to  understand  it,  I  have  no  fear  of  the  future  of  American  agricul¬ 
ture. 


*  s|c  s|t 


. 


■ 


■ 


'  •  •  » 

* 

• 

. 

. 

