A  ROUND  OF  STORIES 


®¥  THE  ©HS8ST»A§  FlfiE. 

BEING  THE  EXTRA  CHRISTMAS  NUMBER  OF  HOTJSEHQIiD  WORDS. 

CONDUCTED  BY  CHARLES  DICKENS. 

CONTAINING  THE  AMOUNT  OF  ONE  REGULAR  NUMBER  AND  A  HALF. 


CHRISTMAS,  1852. 


i 


Price 

3d. 


The  Poor  Relation’s  Story 
The  Child’s  Story  .  ,  . 
Somebody’s  Story  .  ..  . 
The  Old  Nnrse’S  Story 
The  Host’s  Story  .  .  . 


CONTENTS. 


Page  1 
„  5 

»  7 

”  “ 
,,  20 


The  Grandfathers  story 
The  Charwoman’s  Story 
The  Deaf  Playmate’s  Story 
The  Guest’s  Story  .  .  . 
The  Mother’s  Story  .  .  . 


Page  21 


n 


25 


n 

if 

ft 


27 

30 

33 


THE  POOH  RELATION’S  STORY. 

He  was  very  reluctant  to  take  precedence 
of  so  many  respected  members  of  the  family, 
by  beginning  the  round  of  stories  they  were 
to  relate  as  they  sat  in  a  goodly  circle  by  the 
Christmas  fire  ;  and  lie  modestly  suggested 
that  it  would  be  more  correct  if  “  John  onr 
esteemed  host  ”  (whose  health  he  begged  to 
drink)  would  have  the  kindness  to  begin. 
For  as  to  himself,  lie  said,  lie  was  so  little 

used  to  lead  the  way,  that  really -  But  as 

they  all  cried  out  here,  that  lie  innst  begin, 
and  agreed  with  one  voice  that  he  might, 
could,  would,  and  should  begin,  he  left  off 
rubbing  his  handstand  took  his  legs  out  from 
under  his  arm-chair,  and  did  begin. 

I  have  no  doubt  (said  the  poor  relation) 
i  that  I  shall  surprise  the  assembled  members 
of  our  family,  and  particularly  John  our 
esteemed  host  to  whom  we  are  so  much  in¬ 
debted  for  the  great  hospitality  with  which 
he  has  this  day  entertained  us,  by  the  con¬ 
fession  I  am  going  to  make.  But,  if  you  do 
me  the  honor  to  be  surprised  at  anything  that 
falls  from  a  person  so  unimportant  in  the 
family  as  I  am,  I  can  only  say  that  I  shall  be 
scrupulously  accurate  in  all  I  relate. 

I  am  not  what  I  am  supposed  to  be.  I  am 
quite  another  thing.  Perhaps  before  I  go 
further,  I  had  better  glance  at  what  I  am 
supposed  to  be. 

It  is  supposed,  unless  I  mistake — the 
assembled  members  of  our  family  will  correct 
me  if  I  do,  which  is  very  likel}7  (here  the  poor 
relation  looked  mildly  about  him  for  contra¬ 
diction)  ;  that  I  am  nobody’s  enemy  but  my 
own.  That  I  never  met  with  any  particular 
success  in  anything.  That  I  failed  in  busi¬ 
ness  because  I  was  unbusiness-like  and 
credulous — in  not  being  prepared  for  the 
interested  designs  of  my  partner.  That  I 
failed  in  love,  because  I  was  ridiculously 
trustful — in  thinking  it  impossible  that 
Christiana  could  deceive  me.  That  I  failed 
in  my  expectations  from  my  uncle  Chill,  on 


account  of  'not  being  as  sharp  as  he  could 
have  wished  in*  worldly  matters.  That, 
through  life,  I  have  been  rather  put  upon 
and  disappointed,  in  a  general  way.  That  I 
am  at  present  a  bachelor  of  between  fifty-nine 
and  sixty  years  of  age,  living  on  a  limited 
income  in  the  form  of  a  quarterly  allowance, 
to  which  I  see  that  John  our  esteemed  host 
wishes  me  to  make  no  further  allusion. 

The  supposition  as  to  my  present  pursuits 
and  habits  is  to  the  following  effect. 

I  live  in  a  lodging  in  the  Clapham  Road — 
a  very  clean  back  room,  in  a  very  respectable 
house — where  I  am  expected  not  to  be  at 
home  in  the  day-time,  unless  poorly  ;  and 
which  I  usually  leave  in  1  ae  morning  at  nine 
o’clock,  on  pretence  of  going  to  business.  I 
take  my  breakfast — my  roll  and  butter,  and 
my  half-pint  of  coffee — at  the  old  established 
coffee-shop  near  Westminster  Bridge  ;  and  j 
then  I  go  into  the  City — I  don’t  know  why —  } 

and  sit  in  Garraway’s  Coffee  House,  and  on 
’Change,  and  walk  about,  and  look  into  a  few 
offices  and  counting-houses  where  some  of 
my  relations  or  acquaintance  are  so  good  as 
to  tolerate  me,  and  where  I  stand  by  the  fire 
if  the  weather  happens  to  ’be  cold.  1  get 
through  the  day  in  this  way  until  five  o’clock, 
and  then  I  dine  :  at  a  cost,  on  the  average,  of 
one  and  threepence.  Having  still  a  little 
money  to  spend  on  my  evening’s  entertain¬ 
ment,  I  look  into  the  old-established  coffee- 
shop  as  I  go  home,  and  take  my  cup  of  tea, 
and  perhaps  my  bit  of  toast.  So,  as  the 
large  hand  of  the  clock  makes  its  way 
round  to  the  morning  hour  again,  I  make  my 
way  round  to  the  Clapham  Road  again,  and 
go  to  bej  when  I  get  to  my  lodging — fire 
being  expensive,  and  being  objected  to  by  the 
family  on  acconnt  of  its  giving  trouble  and 
making  a  dirt. 

Sometimes,  one  of  my  relations  or  acquaint¬ 
ances  is  so  obliging  as  to  ask  me  to  dinner. 
Those  are  holiday  occasions,  and  then  I 
generally  walk  in  the  Park.  I  am  a  solitary 
man,  and  seldom  walk  with  anybody.  Not 


2  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  inducted  by 


that  I  am  avoided  because  I  am  shabby ;  for 
I  am  not  at  all  shabby,  having  always  a  very 
good  suit  of  black  on  (or  rather  Oxford 
mixture,  which  has  the  appearance  of  black 
and  wears  much  better)  ;  but  I  have  got  into 
a  habit  of  speaking  low,  and  being  rather 
silent,  and  my  spirits  are  not  high,  and  I  am 
sensible  that  I  am  not  an  attractive  com¬ 
panion. 

The  only  exception  to  this  general  rule  is 
the  child  of  my  first  cousin,  Little  Frank.  I 
have  a  particular  affection  for  that  child,  and 
lie  takes  very  kindly  to  me.  He  is  a  diffi¬ 
dent  boy  by  nature  ;  and  in  a  crowd  he  is 
soon  run  over,  as  I  may  say,  and  forgotten. 
He  and  I,  however,  get  oh  exceedingly  well. 
I  have  a  fancy  that  the  poor  child  will  in  time 
succeed  to  my  peculiar  position  in  the  family. 
We  talk  but  little  ;  still,  we  understand  each 
other.  We  walk  about,  hand  in  hand  ;  and 
without  much  speaking  he  knows  what  I 
mean,  and  I  know  what  he  means.  When  he 
was  very  little  indeed,  I  used  to  take  him  to 
the  windows  of  the  toy-shops,  and  show  him 
the  toys  inside.  It  is  surprising  liow  soon  he 
found  out  that  I  would  have  made  him  a 
great  many  presents  if  I  had  been  in 
/circumstances  to  do  it. 

Little  Frank  and  I  go  and  look  at  the  out¬ 
side  of  the  Monument — he  is  very  fond  of  the 
Monument — and  at  the  Bridges,  and  at  all 
the  sights  that  are  free.  On  two  of  my  birth¬ 
days,  we  have  dined  on  a-la-mode  beef,  and 
gone  at  half-price  to  the  play,  and  been 
deeply  interested.  I  was  once  walking  wLh 
him  in  Lombard  Street,  which  we  often  visit 
on  account  of  my  having  meutioned  to  him 
that  there  are  great  riches  there — he  is  very 
fond  of  Lombard  Street — when  a  gentleman 
said  to  me  as  he  passed  by,  “  Sir,  your  little 
son  has  dropped  his  glove.”  I  assure  you,  if 
you  will  excuse  my  remarking  on  so  trivial  a 
circumstance,  this  accidental  mention  of  the 
child  as  mine,  quite  touched  my,  heart  and 
brought  the  foolish  tears  into  my  eyes. 

When  little  Frank  is  sent  to  school  in  the 
country,  I  shall  be  very  much  at  a  loss  what 
to  do  with  myself,  but  I  have  the  intention  of 
walking  down  there  once  a  month  and  seeing 
him  on  a  half  holiday.  I  am  told  he  will  then 
be  at  play  upon  the  Heath  ;  and  if  my  visits 
should  be  objected  to,  as  unsettling  the  child, 
I  can  see  him  from  a  distance  without  his 
seeing  me,  and  walk  back  again.  His  mother 
comes  of  a  highly  genteel  family,  and  rather 
disapproves,  I  am  aware,  of  our  beiug  too 
much  together.  I  know  that  I  am  not  calcu¬ 
lated  to  improve  his  retiring  disposition ;  but 
I  think  he  would  miss  me  beyond  the  feeliug 
of  the  moment,  if  we  were  wholly  separated. 

When  I  die  in  the  Clapham  Road,  I  shall 
not  leave  much  more  in  this  world  than  I 
shall  take  out  of  it  ;  but,  I  happen  to  have 
a  miniature  of  a  bright-faced  boy,  with  a 
curling  head,  and  an  open  shirt-frill  waving 
down  his  bosom  (my  mother  had  it  taken  for 
me,  but  I  can’t  believe  that  it  was  ever  like), 


which  will  be  worth  nothing  to  sell,  and 
which  I  shall  beg  may  be  given  to  Frank.  I 
have  written  my  dear  boy  a  little  letter  with 
it,  in  which  I  have  told,  him  that  I  felt  very 
sorry  to  part  from  him,  though  bound  to 
confess  that  I  knew  no  reason  why  I  should 
remain  here.  I  have  given  him  some  short 
advice,  the  best  in  my  power,  to  take  warning 
of  the  consequences  of  being  nobody’s  enemy 
but  his  own ;  and  I  have  endeavoured  to 
comfort  him  for  what  I  fear  he  will  consider 
a  bereavement,  by  pointing  out  to  him  that 
T  was  only  a  superfluous  something  to  every 
one  but  him,  and  that  having  by  some  means 
failed  to  find  a  place  in  this  great  assembly, 
I  am  better  out  of  it. 

Such  (said  the  poor  relation,  clearing  his 
throat  and  beginning  to  speak  a  little  louder) 
is  the  general  impression  about  me.  Now, 
it  is  a  remarkable  circumstance  which  forms 
the  aim  and  purpose  of  my  story,  that  this  is 
all  wrong.  Thisds  not  my  life,  and  these  are 
not  my  habits.  I  do  not  even  live  in  the 
Clapham  Road.  Comparatively  speaking,  I 
am  very  seldom  there.  I  reside,  mostly,  hi  a 
— I  am  almost  ashamed  to  say  the  word,  it 
sounds  sojfull  of  pretension—  in  a  Castle.  I 
do  not  mean  that  it  is  an  old  baronial  habita¬ 
tion,  but  still  it  is  a  building  always  known 
to  every  one  by  the  name  of  a  Castle.  In  it, 
I  preserve  the  particulars  of  my  history ; 
they  run  thus  : 

It  was  when  I  first  took  John  Spatter  (who 
had  been  my  clerk)  into  partnership,  and  when 
I  was  still  a  young  mau  of  not  more  than  five- 
and-twenty,  residing  in  the  house  of  my  uncle 
Chill  from  whom  I  had  considerable  expecta¬ 
tions,  that  I  ventured  to  propose  to  Christiana. 
I  had  loved  Christiana,  a  long  time.  She  was 
very  beautiful,  and  very  winning  in  all 
respects.  I  rather  mistrusted  her  widowed 
mother,  who  I  feared  was  of  a  plotting  and 
mercenary  turn  of  mind  ;  but,  I  thought  as 
well  of  her  as  I  could,  for  Christiana’s  sake. 
I  never  had  loved  any  one  but  Christiana,  and 
she  had  been  all  the  world,  and  O  far  more 
than  all  the  world,  to  me,  from  our  childhood  ! 

Christiana  accepted  me  with  her  mother’s 
consent,  and  I  was  rendered  very  happy 
indeed.  My  life  at  my  Uncle  Chill’s  was  of 
a  spare  dull  kind,  and  my  garret  chamber 
was  as  dull,  and  bare,  and  cold,  as  an 
upper  prison  room  in  some  stern  northern 
fortress.  But,  having  Christiaua’s  love,  I 
wanted  nothing  upon  earth.  I  would  not 
have  changed  my  lot  with  any  human  being. 

Avarice  was,  unhappily,  my  Uncle  Chill’s 
master-vice.  Though  he  was  rich,  he  pinched, 
and  scraped,  and  clutched,  and  lived  miserably. 
As  Christiana  had  no  fortune,  I  was  for  some 
time  a  little  fearful  of  confessing  our  engage¬ 
ment  to  him  ;  but,  at  length  I  wrote  him  a 
letter,  saying  how  it  all  truly  was.  I  put  it 
into  his  hand  one  night,  on  going  to  bed, 

As  I  came  down  stairs  next  morning, 
shivering  in  the  cold  December  air ;  colder 
in  my  uncle’s  jmwarmed  house  than  in 


Charles  Pickens  }  THE  POOR  RELATION’S  STORY,  3 


the  street,  where  the  winter  sun  did  some* 
times  shine,  and  which  was  at  all  events 
enlivened  by  cheerful  faces  and  voices  passing 
along  ;  I  carried  a  heavy  heart  towards  the 
long,  low  breakfast-room  in  which  my  uncle 
sat.  It  was  a  large  room  with  a  small  fire, 
and  there  was  a  great  bay  window  in  it  which 
the  rain  had  marked  in  the  night  as  if  with 
the  tears  of  houseless  people.  It  stared  upon 
a  raw  yard,  with  a  cracked  stone  pavement, 
and  some  rusted  iron  railings  half  uprooted, 
whence  an  ugly  out-building  that  had  once  been 
a  dissecting-room  (in  the  time  of  the  great 
surgeon  who  had  mortgaged  the  house  to  my 
uncle),  stared  at  it. 

We  rose  so  early  always,  that'  at  that  time 
of  the  year  we  breakfasted  by  candle-light. 
When  T  went  into  the  room,  my  uncle  was  so 
contracted  by  the  cold,  and  so  huddled  to¬ 
gether  in  his  chair  behind  the  one  dim  candle, 
that  I  did  not  see  him  until  I  was  close  to 
the  table. 

As  I  held  out  my  hand  to  him,  he  caught 
up  his  stick  (being  infirm,  he  always  vralked 
about  the  house  with  a  stick),  and  made  a 
blow  at  me,  and  said,  “  You  fool !  ” 

“  Uncle.5’  I  returned,  “  I  didn’t  expect  you 
to  be  so  angry  as  this.”  Nor  had  I  expected 
it,  though  he  was  a  hard  and  angry  old  man. 

“You  didn’t  expect!”  said  he;  “when 
did  you  ever  expect  ?  When  did  you  ever 
calculate,  or  look  forward,  you  contemptible 
dog?” 

“  These  are  hard  words,  uncle  !  ” 

“  Hard  words  ?  Feathers,  to  pelt  such 
an  idiot  as  you  with,”  said  he.  -Here! 
Betsy  Snap  !  Look  at  him  !  ” 

Betsey  Snap  was  a  withered,  hard-favored, 
yellow  old  woman  —  onr  only  domestic  — 
always  employed,  at  this  time  of  the  morning, 
in  rubbing  my  uncle’s  legs.  As  my  uncle 
adjured  her  to  look  at  me,  he  put  his  Jean 
grip  on  the  ci'own  of  her  head,  she  kneeling 
beside  him,  and  turned  her  face  towards  me. 
An  involuntary  thought  connecting  them  both 
with  the  Dissecting  Room,  as  it  must  often 
have  been  in  the  surgeon’s  time,  passed  across 
my  mind  in  the  midst  of  my  anxiety. 

“  Look  at  the  snivelling  milksop  !”  said  my 
uncle.  “  Look  at  the  baby !  This  is  the 
gentleman  who,  people  say,  is  nobody’s  enemy 
but  his  own.  This  is  the  gentleman  who  can’t 
say  no.  This  is  the  gentleman  who  was 
making  such  large  profits  in  his  business  that 
he  must  needs  take  a  partner,  t’other  day. 
This  is  the  gentleman  who  is  going  to  marry 
a  wife  without  a  penny,  and  who  falls  into 
the  hands  of  Jezabels  who  are  speculating  on 
my  death !” 

I  knew,  now,  how  great  my  uncle’s  rage 
was  ;  for  nothing  short  of  his  being  almost 
beside  himself  would  have  induced  him  to 
utter  that  concluding  word,  which  he  held 
in  such  repugnance  that  it  was  never  spoken 
or  hinted  at  before  him  on  any  account. 

“  On  my  death,”  he  repeated,  as  if  he  were 
defying  me  by  defying  his  own  abhorrence  of 


the  word.  “  On  my  death — death — Death  ! 
Bnt  I’ll  spoil  the  speculation.  Eat  your  last 
under  this  roof,  you  feeble  wretch,  and  may  it 
choke  you !  ” 

You  may  suppose  that  I  had  not  much 
appetite  for  the  breakfast  to  which  I  was 
bidden  in  these  terms  ;  but,  I  took  my  accus¬ 
tomed  seat.  I  saw  that  I  was  I'epudiated 
henceforth  by  my  uncle  ;  still  I  could  bear  that 
very  well,  possessing  Christiana’s  heart. 

He  emptied  his  basin  of  bread  and  milk  as 
usual,  only  that  he  took  it  on  his  knees  with 
his  chair  turned  away  from  the  table  where  I 
sat.  When  he  had  done,  he  carefully  snuffed 
out  the  caudle  ;  and  the  cold,  slate-coloured, 
miserable  day  looked  in  upon  us. 

“  Now,  Mr.  Michael,”  said  he,  “  before  we 
part,  I  should  like  to  have  a  word  with  these 
ladies  in  your  presence.” 

“As  you  will,  sir,”  I  returned  ;  “but  you 
deceive  yourself,  and  wrong  us,  cruelly,  if  yon 
suppose  that  there  is  any  feeling  at  stake  in 
this  contract  but  pure,  disinterested,  faithful 
love.” 

To  this,  he  only  replied,  “  You  lie  !  ’?  and 
not  one  other  word. 

We  went,  through  half-thawed  snow  and 
half-frozen  rain,  to  the  house  where  Christiana 
and  her  mother  lived.  My  uncle  knew  them 
very  well.  They  were  sitting  at  their  break¬ 
fast,  and  were  surprised  to  see  us  at  that 
hour.  • 

“Your  servant,  ma’am,”  said  my  uncle,  to 
the  mother.  “You  divine  the  purpose  of  my 
visit,  I  dare  say,  ma’am.  I  understand  there 
is  a  world  of  pure,  disinterested,  faithful  love 
cooped  up  here.  I  am  happy  to  bring  it  all 
it  wants,  to  make  it  complete.  I  bring  you 
your  son-in-law,  ma’am — and  you,  your  j 
husband,  miss.  The  gentleman  is  a  perfect 
stranger  to  me,  but  I  wish  him  joy  of  his  wise 
bargain.” 

He  snarled  at  me  as  lie  went  out,  and  I 
never  saw  him  again. 

It  is  altogether  a  mistake  (continued  the 
poor  relation)  to  suppose  that  my  dear 
Christiana,  over-persuaded  and  influenced  by 
her  mother,  married  a  rich  man,  the  dirt  from 
whose  carriage  wheels  is  often,  in  these 
changed  times,  thrown  upon  me  as  she  rides 
by.  No,  no.  She  married  me. 

The  way  we  came  to  be  married  rather 
sooner  than  we  intended,  was  this.  I  took  a 
frugal  lodging  and  was  saving  and  planning 
for  her  sake,  when,  one  day,  she  spoke  to  me 
With  great  earnestness,  and  said  ; 

“  My  dear  Michael,  I  have  given  yon  my 
heart.  I  have  said  that  I  loved  you,  and  I  have 
pledged  myself  to  be  your  wife.  I  am  as 
much  yours  through  all  changes  of  good  and 
evil  as  if  we  had  been  married  on  the  day 
when  such  words  passed  between  us.  I 
know  you  well,  and  know  that  if  we  should  be 
separated  and  our  union  broken  off,  your 
whole  life  would  be  shadowed,  and  all  that 
might,  even  now,  be  stronger  in  your  cha- 


1  1 

4  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  [Conduced by  1 

racter  for  the  conflict  with  the  world  would 
then  be  weakened  to  tho  shadow  of  what 
it  is  !  ” 

“  God  help  me,  Christiana  !  ”  said  I.  “  You 
speak  the  truth*” 

“  Michael !  ”  said  she,  putting  her  hand  in 
mine,  in  all  maidenly  devotion,  “  let  us  keep 
apart  no  longer.  It  is  but  for  me  to  say  that 
I  can  live  contented  upon  such  means  as  you 
have,  and  I  well  know  you  are  happy.  I  say 
so  from  my  heart.  Strive  no  more  alone  ;  let 
us  strive  together.  My  dear  Michael,  it  is 
not  right  that  I  should  keep  secret  from  you 
what  you  do  not  suspect,  but  what  distresses 
my  whole  life.  My  mother:  without  con¬ 
sidering  that  what  you  have  lost,  you  have 
lost  for  me,  and  on  the  assurance  of  my  faith  : 
sets  her  heart  on  riches,  and  urges  another 
suit  upon  me,  to  my  misery.  I  cannot  bear 
this,  for  to  bear  it  is  to  be  untrue  to  you,  I 
would  rather  share  your  struggles  than  look 
on.  I  want  no  better  home  than  you  can 
give  me.  I  know  that  you  will  aspire  and 
labor  with  a  higher  courage  if  I  am  wholly 
yours,  and  let  it  be  so  when  you  will  !  ” 

I  was  blest  indeed,  that  day,  and  a  new 
world  opened  to  me.  We  were  married  in  a 
very  little  while,  and  I  took  my  wife  to  our 
happy  home.  That  was  the  beginning  of  the 
residence  I  have  spoken  of ;  the  Castle  we 
have  ever  since  inhabited  togetliei,  dates  from 
that  time.  All  our  children  have  been  born 
in  it.  Our  first  child — now  married — was  a 
little  girl,  whom  we  called  Christiana.  Her 
son  is  so  like  Little  Frank,  that  I  hardly  know 
which  is  which. 

The  current  impression  as  to  my  partner’s 
dealings  with  me  is  also  quite  erroneous. 
He  did  not  begin  to  treat  me  coldly,  as  a 
poor  simpleton,  when  my  uncle  and  I  so 
fatally  quarrelled ;  nor  did  he  afterwards 
gradually  possess  himself  of  our  business  and 
edge  me  out.  On  the  contrary,  he  behaved 
to  me  with  the  utmost  good  faith  and  honor. 

Matters  between  us,  took  this  turn : — On  the 
day  of  my  separation  from  my  uncle,  and  even 
before  the  arrival  at  our  counting-house  of 
my  trunks  (which  he  sent  after  me,  not  cai'- 
riage  paid),  I  went  down  to  our  room  of 
business,  on  our  little  wharf,  overlooking  the 
river  ;  and  there  I  told  John  Spatter  what 
had  happened.  John  did  not  say,  in  reply, 
that  rich  old  relatives  were  palpable  facts, 
and  that  love  and  sentiment  were  moonshine 
and  fiction.  He  addressed  me  thus  : 

“Michael,”  said  John.  “We  were  at 
school  together,  and  I  generally  had  the 
knack  of  getting  on  better  than  you,  and 
making  a  higher  reputation.” 

“You  had,  John,”  I  returned. 

“Although,”  said  John,  “  I  borrowed  your 
books,  and  lost  them  ;  borrowed  your  pocket- 
money,  and  never  repaid  it ;  got  you  to  buy 
my  damaged  knives  at  a  higher  price  than  I 
had  given  for  them  new  ;  and  to  own  to  the 
windows  that  I  had  broken.” 

“All  not  wrnrtli  mentioning,  John  Spatter,” 
said  I,  “  but  certainly  true.” 

“  When  you  were  first  established  in  this 
infant  business,  which  promises  to  thrive  so 
well,”  pursued  John,  “  I  came  to  you,  in  my 
search  for  almost  any  employment,  and  you 
made  me  your  clerk.” 

“  Still  not  worth  mentioning,  my  dear  John 
Spatter,”  said  I ;  “  still,  equally  true.” 

“  Ama  finding  that  I  haci  a  good  head  for 
business,  and  that  I  was  really  useful  to  the 
business,  you  did  not  like  to  retain  me  in  that 
capacity,  and  thought  it  an  act  of  justice  soon 
to  make  me  your  partner.” 

“Still  less  wortn  mentioning  than  any  of 
those  other  little  circumstances  you  have 
recalled,  John  Spatter,”  said  I  ;  “  for  I  was, 
and  am,  sensible  of  your  merits  and  my 
deficiencies.” 

“  Now  my  good  friend,”  said  John,  drawing 
my  arm  through  his,  as  he  had  had  a  habit  of 
doing  at  school ;  while  two  vessels  outside  the 
windows  of  our  counting-house — which  were 
shaped  like  the  stern  windows  of  a  ship — 
went  lightly  down  the  river  with  the  tide,  as 
John  and  I  might  then  be  sailing  away  in 
company,  and  in  trust  and  confidence,  on  onr 
voyage  of  life  ;  “  let  there,  under  these  friendly 
circumstances,  be  a  right  understanding 
between  us.  You  are  too  easy,  Michael.  You 
are  nobody’s  enemy  but  your  own.  If  I 
were  to  give  you  that  damaging  character 
among  our  connexion,  with  a  slirug,  and  a 
shake  of  the  head,  and  a  sigh  ;  and  if  I  were 
further  to  abuso  the  trust  you  place  in 
me - ” 

“But  you  never  will  abuse  it  at  all,  John,” 

I  observed. 

“Never!”  said  lie,  “but  lam  putting  a 
case — I  say,  and  if  I  were  further  to  abuse 
that  trust  by  keeping  this  piece  of  our 
common  affairs  in  the  dark,  and  this  other 
piece  in  the  light,  and  again  this  other  piece 
in  the  twilight,  and  so  on,  I  should  strengthen 
my  strength,  and  weaken  your  weakness,  day 
by  day,  until  at  last  I  found  myself  on  the 
high  road  to  fortune,  and  you  left  behind  on 
some  bare  common,  a  hopeless  number  of 
miles  out  of  tho  way.”  # 

“  Exactly  so,”  said  I. 

“To  prevent  this,  Michael,”  said  John 
Spatter,  “  or  the  remotest  chance  of  this,  there 
must  be  perfect  openness  between  us.  Nothing 
must  be  concealed,  and  we  must  have  but  one 
interest.” 

“My  dear  John  Spatter,”  I  assured  him, 

“  that  is  precisely  what  I  mean.” 

“And  when  you  are  too  easy,”  pursued 
John,  liis  face  glowing  with  friendship,  “you 
must  allow  me  to  prevent  that  imperfection 
in  your  nature  from  being  taken  advantage 
of,  by  any  one  ;  you  must  not  expect  me  to 
humour  it - ” 

“My  dear  John  Spatter,”  I  interrupted, 

“  I  don't  expect  you  to  humour  it.  I  want  to 
correct  it.” 

“  And  I,  too !  ”  said  John/ 

Charles  Dickens.]  THE  CHILD’S  STORY.  6 

“ Exactly  so!”  cried  I.  “We  both  have 
the  same  end  in  view  ;  and,  honorably  seeking 
it,  and  fully  trusting  one  another,  and  having 
but  one  interest,  ours  will  be  a  prosperous  and 
happy  partnership.” 

“  I  am  sure  of  it !  ”  returned  John  Spatter. 
And  we  shook  hands  most  affectionately. 

I  took  John  home  to  my  Castle,  and  we  had 
a  very  happy  day.  Our  partnership  throve 
well.  My  friend  and  partner  supplied  what 

I  wanted,  as  I  had  foreseen  that  he  would ;  and 
by  improving  both  the  business'  and  myself, 
amply  acknowledged  any  little  rise  in  life  to 
which  I  had  helped  him. 

I  am  not  (said  the  poor  relation,  looking 
at  the  fire  as  he  slowly  rubbed  his  hands),  not 
very  rich,  for  I  never  cared  to  be  that ;  but  I 
have  enough,  and  am  above  all  moderate 
wants  and  anxieties.  My  Castle  is  not  a 
splendid  place,  but  it  is  very  comfortable,  and 
it  has  a  warm  and  cheerful  air,  and  is 
quite  a  picture  of  Home. 

Our  eldest  girl,  who  is  very  like  her  mother, 
married  John  Spatter’s  eldest  son.  Our  two 
families  are  closely  united  in  other  ties  of 
attachment.  It  is  very  pleasant  of  an  evening, 
when  we  are  all  assembled  together — which 
frequently  happens — and  when  John  and  I 
talk  over  old  times,  and  the  one  interest  there 
has  always  been  between  us. 

I  really  do  not  know,  in  my  Castle,  what 
loneliness  is.  Some  of  our  children  or  grand¬ 
children  are  always  about  it,  and  the  young 
voices  of  my  descendants  are-  delightful — 0, 
how  delightful ! — to  me  to  hear.  My  dearest 
and  most  devoted  wife,  ever  faithful,  ever 
loving,  ever  helpful  and  sustaining  and  con¬ 
soling,  is  the  priceless  blessing  of  my  house  ; 
from  whom  all  its  other  blessings  spring. 
We  are  rather  a  musical  family,  and  when 
Christiana  sees  me,  at  any  time,  a  little  weary 
or  depressed,  she  steals  to  the  piano  and  sings 
a  gentle  air  she  used  to  sing  when  we  were 
first  betrothed.  So  weak  a  man  am  I,  that  I 
cannot  bear  to  hear  it  from  any  other  source. 
They  played  it  once,  at  the  Theatre,  when  I 
was  there  with  Little  Frank ;  and  the  child 
said,  wondering,  “  Cousin  Michael,  whose 
hot  tears  are  these  that  have  fallen  on  my 
hand!” 

Such  is  my  Castle,  and  such  are  the  real 
particulars  of  my  life  therein  preserved.  I 
often  take  Little  Frank  home  there.  He  is 
very  welcome  to  my  grandchildren,  and  they 
play  together.  At  this  time  of  the  year — 
the  Christmas  and  New  Year  time — I  am 
seldom  out  of  my  Castle.  For,  the  associations 
of  the  season  seem  to  hold  me  there,  and  the 
precepts  of  the  season  seem  to  teach  me  that 
it  is  well  to  be  there. 

“  And  the  Castle  is - ”  observed  a  grave, 

kind  voice  among  the  company. 

“  Yes.  My  Castle,”  said  the  poor  relation, 
shaking  liis  head  as  lie  still  looked  at  the  fire, 
“is  in  the  Air.  John  our  esteemed  host 

suggests  its  situation  accurately.  My  Castle 
is  in  the  Air  !  I  have  done.  Will  you  be  so 
good  as  to  pass  the  story.” 

THE  CHILD’S  STORY. 

- 

Once  upon  a  time,  a  good  many  years  ago, 
there  was  a  traveller,  and  he  set  out  upon  a 
journey.  It  was  a  magic  journey,  and  was  to 
seem  very  long  when  he  began  it,  and  very 
short  when  he  got  half  way  through. 

He  travelled  along  a  rather  dark  path  for 
some  little  time,  without  meeting  anything, 
until  at  last  he  came  to  a  beautiful  child.  So 
he  said  to  the  child  “  What  do  you  do  here  ?  ” 
And  the  child  said,  “  I  am  always  at  play. 
Come  and  play  with  me  !  ” 

So,  he  played  with  that  child,  the  whole  day 
long,  and  they  were  very  merry.  The  sky 
was  so  blue,  the  sun  was  so  bright,  the  water 
was  so  sparkling,  the  leaves  were  so  green, 
the  flowers  were  so  lovely,  and  they  heard  such 
singing-birds  and  saw  so  many  butterflies, 
that  everything  was  beautiful.  This  was  in 
fine  weather.  When  it  rained,  they  loved  to 
watch  the  falling  drops,  and  to  smell  the  fresh 
scents.  When  it  blew,  it  was  delightful  to 
listen  to  the  wind,  and  fancy  what  it  said,  as 
it  came  rushing  from  its  home — where  was 
that,  they  wondered  ! — whistling  and  howling, 
driving  the  clouds  before  it,  bending  the 
trees,  rumbling  in  the  chimnies,  shaking  the 
house,  and  making  the  sea  roar  in  fury.  But, 
when  it  snowed,  that  was  best  of  all ;  for,  they 
liked  nothing  so  well  as  to  look  up  at  the 
white  flakes  falling  fast  and  thick,  like  down 
from  the  breasts  of  millions  of  white  birds  ; 
and  to  see  how  smooth  and  deep  the  drift 
was  ;  and  to  listen  to  the  hush  upon  the  paths 
and  roads. 

They  had  plenty  of  the  finest  toys  in  the 
world,  and  the  most  astonishing  picture- 
books  :  all  about  scimitars  and  slippers  and 
turbans,  and  dwarfs  and  giants  and  genii  and 
fairies,  and  blue-beards  and  bean-stalks  and 
riches  and  caverns  and  forests  and  Valentines 
and  Orsons  :  and  all  new  and  all  true. 

But,  one  day,  of  a  sudden,  the  traveller 
lost  the  child.  He  called  to  him  over  and 
over  again,  but  got  no  answer.  So,  he  went 
upon  his  road,  and  went  on  for  a  little  while 
without  meeting  anything,  until  at  last  he 
came  to  a  handsome  boy.  So,  he  said  to  the 
boy,  “  What  do  you  do  here  ?  ”  And  the  boy 
said,  “I  am  always  learning.  Come  and 
learn  with  me.” 

So  he  learned  with  that  boy  about  J upiter 
and  Juno,  and  the  Greeks  and  the  Homans,  and 

I  don’t  know  what,  and  learned  more  than 

I  could  tell — or  he  either,  for  he  soon  forgot  a 
great  deal  of  it.  But,  they  were  not  always 
learning ;  they  had  the  merriest  games  that 
ever  were  played.  They  rowed  upon  the 
river  in  summer,  and  skated  on  the  ice  in 
winter  ;  they  were  active  afoot,  and  active  on 
horseback  ;  at  cricket,  and  all  games  at  ball ; 
at  prisoners’  base,  hare  and  hounds,  follow 

C  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  *  [Conducted  ty 


my  leader,  and  more  sports  than  I  can  think 
of ;  nobody  could  beat  them.  They  had 
holidays  too,  and  Twelfth  cakes,  and  parties 
where  they  danced  all  night  till  midnight, 
and  real  Theatres  where  they  saw  palaces  of 
real  gold  and  silver  rise  out  of  the  real  earth, 
and  saw  all  the  wonders  of  the  world  at  once. 
As  to  friends,  they  had  such  dear  friends  and 
so  many  of  them,  that  I  want  the  time  to 
reckon  them  up.  They  were  all  young,  like 
,  the  handsome  boy,  and  wrere  never  to  be 
strange  to  one  another  all  ’their  lives 
through. 

Still,  one  day,  in  the  midst  of  all  these 
pleasures,  the  traveller  lost  the  boy  as  lie  had 
lost  the  child,  and,  after  calling  to  him  in 
vain,  went  on  upon  his  journey.  So  he  went 
on  for  a  little  while  without  seeing  anything, 
until  at  last  he  came  to  a  young  man.  So,  he 
said  to  the  young  man,  “What  do  you  do 
here  ?  ”  And  the  young  man  said,  “  I  am 
always  in  love.  Come  and  love  with  me.” 

So,  he  went  away  with  that  young  man,  and 
presently  they  came  to  one  of  the  prettiest 
girls  that  ever  was  seen — just  like  Fanny  in 
the  corner  there  —  and  she  had  eyes  like 
Fanny,  and  hair  like  Fanny,  and  dimples  like 
Fanny  s,  and  she  laughed  and  coloured  just  as 
Fanny  does  while  I  am  talking  about  her. 
So,  the  young  man  fell  in  love  directly — -just 
as  Somebody  I  won’t  mention,  the  first  time 
he  came  here,  did  with  Fanny.  Well  j  He 
wras  teazed  sometimes — just  as  Somebody 
used  to  be  by  Fanny ;  and  *  they  quarrelled 
sometimes — just  as  Somebody  and  Fanny 
used  to  quarrel ;  and  they  made  it  up,  and 
sat  in  the  dark,  and  wrote  letters  every  day, 
and  never  were  happy  asunder,  and  were 
always  looking  out  for  one  another  and  pre¬ 
tending  not  to,  and  were  engaged  at  Christ¬ 
mas  time,  and  sat  close  to  one  another  by  the 
fire,  and  were  going  to  be  married  very  soon 
— all  exactly  like  Somebody  I  won’t  mention, 
and  Fanny ! 

But,  the  traveller  lost  them  one  day,  as  he 
had  lost  the  rest  of  hisTriends,  and,  after  calling 
to  them  to  come  back,  which  they  never  did, 
went  on  upon  his  journey.  So,  he  went  on  for 
a  little  while  without  seeing  anything,  until 
at  last  lie  came  to  a  middle-aged  gentleman. 
So,  he  said  to  the  gentleman,  “  What  are  you 
doing  here?”  And  his  answer  was,  “I  am 
always  busy.  Come  and  be  busy  with  me  !  ” 

So,  he  began  to  be  very  busy  with  that 
goutleman,  and  they  went  on  through  the 
wood  together.  The  whole  journey  was 
through  a  wood,  only  it  had  been  open  and 
green  at  first,  like  a  wood  in  spring  ;  and  now 
began  to  be  thick  and  dark,  like  a  wood  in 
Summer ;  some  o£  the  little  trees  that  had 
come  out  earliest,  were  even  turning  brown. 
The  gentleman  was  not  alone,  but  had  a  lady 
of  about  the  same  age  with  him,  who  was  liis 
Wife  ;  and  they  had  children,  who  were  with 
them  too.  So,  they  all  went  on  together 
through  the  wood,  cutting  down  the  trees,  and 
making  a  path  through  the  branches  and  the 


fallen  leaves,  and  carrying  burdens,  and  work¬ 
ing  hard. 

Sometimes,  the}r  came  to  a  long  green 
avenue  that  opened  into  deeper  woods.  Then 
they  would  hear  a  very  little  distant  voice 
crying,  “  Father,  father,  I  am  another  child  ! 
Stop  for  me  !  ”  And  presently  they  would 
see  a  very  little  figure,  growing  larger  as  it 
came  along,  running  to  join  them.  When  it 
came  up,  they  all  crowded  round  it,  and 
kissed  and  welcomed  it  ;  and  then  they  all 
went  on  together. 

Sometimes,  they  came  to  several  avenues  at 
once,  and  then  they  all  stood  still,  and  one  of 
the  children  said,  “  Father,  I  am  going  to  sea,” 
and  another  said,  “  Father,  I  am  going  to 
India,”  and  another,  u  Father,  I  am  going  to 
seek  my  fortune  where  I  can,”  and  another, 

“  Father,  I  am  going  to  Heaven  !  ”  So,  witli 
many  tears  at  parting,  they  went,  solitary, 
down  those  avenues,  each  child  upon  its  way ; 
and  the  child  who  went  to  Heaven,  rose  into 
the  golden  air  and  vanished. 

^  Whenever  these  partings  happened,  the 
traveller  looked  at  the  gentleman,  and  saw 
him  glance  up  at  the  sky  above  the  trees,  where 
the  day  was  beginning  to  decline, and  the  sunset 
to  come  on.  He  saw,  too,  that  liis  hair  was  turn¬ 
ing  grey.  But,  they  never  could  rest  long,  for 
they  had  tlieir  journey  to  perform,  and  it  was 
necessary  for  them  to  be  always  busy.^ 

At  last,  there  had  been  so  many  partings 
that  there  were  no  children  left,  and  only  the 
traveller,  the  gentleman,  and  the  lady,  went 
upon  their  way  in  company.  And  now  the 
wood  was  yellow  ;  and  now  brown  ;  and  the 
leaves,  even  of  the  forest  trees,  began  to  fall. 

So,  they  came  to  an  avenue  that  was  darker 
than  the  rest,  and  were  pressing  forward  on 
their  journey  without  looking  down  it  when 
the  lady  stopped. 

“  My  husband,”  said  the  lady,  “  I  am 
called.”  ’ 

They  listened,  and  they  heard  a  voice,  a 
long  way  down  the  avenue,  say,  u  Mother, 
mother !  ” 

It  was  the  voice  of  the  first  child  who  had 
said,  “  I  am  going  to  Heaven !  ”  and  the  , 
father  said,  “  I  pray  not  yet.  The  sunset  is' 
very  near.  I  pray  not  yet !  ” 

But,  the  voice  cried  “  Mother,  mother !  ” 
without  minding  him,  though  his  hair  was 
now  quite  white,  and  tears  were  on  his  face. 

Then,  the  mother,  who  was  already  drawn 
into  the  shade  of  the  dark  avenue  and  moving 
away  with  her  arms  still  round  his  neck, 
kissed  him,  and  said  “My  dearest,  I  am  sum-  - 
moned  and  I  go  !  ”  And  she  was  gone.  And 
the  traveller  and  he  were  left  alone  together. 

And  they  went  on  and  on  together,  until 
they  came  to  very  near  the  end  of  the  wood  : 
so  near,  that  they  could  see  the  sunset  sliming 
red  before  them  through  the  trees. 

Yet,  once  more,  while  lie  broke  his  way 
among  the  branches,  the  traveller  lost  liis  friend. 

He  called  and  called,  but  there  was  no  reply, 
and  when  he  passed  out  of  the  wood,  and 


'  Charles  Dickens.)  SOMEBODY’S  STORY.  7 

J  1  ' 

saw  the  peaceful  sun  going  down  upon  a  wide 
purple  prospect,  lie  came  to  an  old  man 
sitting  on  a  fallen  tree.  So,  he  said  to  the  old 
man,  “  What  do  you  do  here  t”  And  the  old 
man  said  with  a  calm  smile,*  (i I  am  always 
remembering.  Come .  and  remember  with 
me  !,” 

}  So,  the  traveller  sat  down  by  the  side  of 
that  old  man,  face  to  face  with  the  serene 
sunset  ;  and  all  his  friends  came  softly  back 
and  stood,  around  him.  The  beautiful  child, 
the  handsome  boy,  the  young  man  in  love, 
the  father,  mother,  and  children :  every  one 
of  them  was  there,  and  he  had  lost  nothing. 
So,  he  loved  them  all,  and  was  kind  and  for¬ 
bearing  with  them  all,  and  was  always  pleased 
to  watch  ttem  all.  and  they  all  honored  and 
loved  him.  And  I  think  the  traveller  must 
be  yourself,  dear  Grandfather,  because  this  is 
what  you  do  to  us, wand  what  we  do  to  you. 

other  streams  are  nourished,  drop  by  drop, 
with  dews  and  rains ;  but  the  Klar  comes 
forth,  full  grown,  from  the  hills.”  And  this, 
indeed,  was  no  invention  of  the  poet ;  for  no 
one  knew  the  source  of  this  river.  The  Town 
Council  had  offered  a  reward  of  five  hundred 
gold  gulden  to  any  one  who  could  discover 
it  ;  but  all  those  who  had  endeavoured  to 
trace  it,  had  come  to  a  place,  many  leagues 
above  Stromthal,  where  the  stream  wound 
between  steep  rocks  ;  and,  where  the  current 
was  so  strong  that  neither  oar  nor  sail  could 
prevail  against  it.  Beyond  those  rocks  were 
the  mountains  called  the  Himmelgebirge  ;  and 
the  Klar  was  supposed  to  rise  in  some  of 
those  inaccessible  regions. 

But,  th6ugh  the  people  of  Stromthal 
honoured  their  river,  they  loved  their  com- 
merco  better.  Therefore,  they  made  no 
public  walks 'along  its  banks  ;  but  built  their 
houses,  mostly,  to  the  water’s  brink  on  both 
sides.  Some,  indeed,  in  the  outskirts,  had 
gardens  ;  but,  in  the  centre  of  the  town,  the 
stream  caught  no  shadows,  except  from  ware¬ 
houses  and  the  overhanging  fronts  of  ancient 
wooden  houses.  Jacob  Elsen’s  house  was  one 
of  these.  The  sides  of  the  bank  before  it  had 
been,  lined  with  birch-stakes,  and  the  founda¬ 
tion  was  dug  so  close  to  the  water,  that  you 
might  open  the  door  of  his  workshop,  and 
dip  a  pitcher  in  tfie  stream. 

Jacob  Elsen’s  household  consisted  of  only  ^ 
three-  persons  besides  himself ;  namely,  his 
daughter,  Margaret  ;  his  apprentice,  Carl  ; 
and  one  old  servant  woman.  He  had  work¬ 
men  ;  but  they  did  not  sleep  in  the  house. 
Carl  was  a  youth  of  eighteen,  and,  his  master’s 
daughter  being  a  little  younger,  he  fell  in  love 
with  her — as  all  apprentices  did  in  those  days. 
CaiTs  love  for  Margaret  was  pure  and  deep. 
Jacob  knew  this  ;  but  he  said  nothing.  He 
had  faith  in  Margaret’s  prudence. 

Whether  Margaret  loved  Carl  at  this  time, 
none  ever  knew  but  herself.  He  went  to 
church  with  her  on  Sundays  ;  and  there,  while 
the  prayers  that  were  said  were  sometimes 
mere  meaningless  sounds  to  him,  through  his 
thinking  of  her,  and  watching  her,  he  could 
hear  her  devoutly  murmuring  the  words  ;  or, 
when  the  preacher  was  speaking,  he  saw  her 
face  turned. towards  him,  and  felt  almost  vexed 
to  see  that  she  was  listening  attentively.  She 
could  sit  at  table  with  him,  and  be  quite  calm, 
when  he  felt  confused  and  awkward;  at 
other  times  she  seemed  always  too  busy  to 
think  of  him.  „  At  length,  his  apprenticeship 
being  completed ;  the  time  came  for  his  leaving 
Elsen’s  house  to  travel,  as  German  work¬ 
men  are  bound  by  their  trade-laws  to  do: 
and  he  determined  to  speak  boldly  to.  Mar¬ 
garet  before  he  went.  What  better  time  could 
he  have  found  for  this,  than  a  summer  even¬ 
ing,  when  Margaret  happened  to  come  into 
the  workshop,  after  his  fellow-workmen  were 
gone  ?  He  called  her  to  the  door  that  opened 
on  the  river,  to  look  out  at  the  sunset,  and 
he  talked  about  the  river,  and  the  mystery  of 

SOMEBODY’S  STORY. 

- (  J  •  } 

A  whole  year  of  Christmas  days  have  come 
and  passed,  since  a  wealthy  tun-maker,  named 
Jacob  Elsen,  was  chosen  Syndic  of  the  Cor¬ 
poration  of  tun-makers,  in  the  town  of 
Stromthal,  in  Southern  Germany.  His  family 
name  is  not  to  be  met  with,  perhaps,  anyr 
where  now.  The  town  itself  is  gone.  The 
inhabitants  once  unjustly 'taxed  the  Jews  who 
dwelt  there,  with  the  murder  of  some  little 
children,  and  drove  them  out ;  forbidding 
any  Jew  to  enter  their  gates  again.  But  the 
Jews  took  their  quiet  revenge  ;  for  they 
built  another  town,  at  a  distance,  and  earned 
all.  the  trade  away,  so  that  the  new  town 
gradually  increased  in  wealth,  while  the  old 
town  dwindled  to  nothings  n  1  r 

But,  Jacob  Elsen  had  no  knowledge  of 
this  persecution.  In  liis  time,  Jetvs  walked 
about  tbe  sombre,  winding  streets,  and  traded 
in  the  market-place,  and  kept  shops,  and  en¬ 
joyed  with  others  the  privileges  of  the  town. 

A  river  flows  through  the  town,  a  narrow 
winding  stream,  navigable  for  small  craft, 
and  called  the  “  Klar.”  This  river,  being  of 
very  pure  sweet  water,  and  moreover  very 
useful  for  the  commerce  of  the  town,  the 
people  call  their  great  friend.  They  believe 
that  it  will  heal  ills  of  mind  and  body ;  and 
although  many  afflicted  persons  have  dipped  in 
it,  and  drunk  of  the  water,  without  feeling 
much  the  better  for  it,  their  belief  remains 
the  same.  They  give  it  feminine  names,  as  if 
it  were  a  beautiful  woman  or  a  goddess. 
They  have  innumerable  songs  and  stories 
about  it,  which  the  people  know  by  heart ; 
or  did  in  Jacob  Elsen’s  time — for  there  were 
very  few  books  and  fewer  readers  there,  in 
those  days.  They  have  a  yearly  festival, 
called  the  “Klarfluss-day,”  when  flowers  and 
ribbons  are  cast  into  the  stream,  and  float 
away  through  the  meadows  towards  the  great 
river.  - 

“is  not  the  Klar,”  said  one  of  their  old 
eongs,  "  a  marvel  among  rivers  ?  Lo,  all 

1 

[Conducted  by 


4 


8  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE. 


its  source  ;  when  it  was  getting  dusk,  and 
he  could  delay  no  longer,  he  told  her  his 
secret ;  and  Margaret  told  him  in  return  her 
secret ;  which  was,  that  she  loved  him  too. 
“  But,”  said  she,  “  I  must  tell  my  father  this.” 

That  night,  after  supper,  they  told  Jacob 
Elson  what  had  passed  between  them.  Jacob 
was  a  man  in  the  prime  of  life.  He  was  not 
avaricious,  but  he  was  prudent  in  all  things. 
“  Let  Carl,”  he  said,  “  come  back  after  his 
Wanderzeit  is  ended,  with  fifty  gold  gulden ; 
and  then,  if  you  are  willing  to  marry  him,  I 
will  make  him  a  master  tun-maker.”  Carl 
asked  no  more  than  this.*  He  did  not  doubt  of 
being  able  to  bring  back  that  sum,  and  he  knew 
that  the  law  would  not  allow  him  to  marry 
until  his  apprenticeship  was  ended.  He  was 
anxious  to  be  gone.  On  the  morrow  he  took 
his  leave  of  Margaret, — early  in  the  morning, 
before  anything  was  stirring  in  the  streets. 
Carl  was  full  of  hope,  but  Margaret  wept  as 
they  stood  upon  the  threshold.  “  Three 
years,”  she  said,  “will  sometimes  work  suSh 
changes  in  us  that  we  are  not  like  our  former 
selves.” 

“  And  yet  they  will  only  make  me  love  you 
more,”  replied  Carl. 

“  You  will  meet  with  fairer  women  than  I, 
where  you  are  going,”  said  Margaret,  “  and  1 
shall  be  thinking  of  you  at  home,  long  after 
you  have  forgotten  me.” 

“Now,  I  am  sure  you  love  me,  Margaret,” 
he  said,  delighted  ;  “  but  you  must  not  have 
doubts  of  me  while  I  am  away.  As  surely  as 
I  love  you  now,  I  will  come  back  with  the 
fifty  gold  gulden,  and  claim  your  father’s 
promise.” 

Margaret  lingered  at  the  door,  and  Carl 
looked  back  many  times  till  he  turned  an 
angle  of  the  street.  His  heart  was  light 
enough  in  spite  of  their  separation,  for 
he  had  always  looked  forward  to  this 
journey  as  the  means  of  winning  her  hand ; 
and  every  step  he  took  seemed  to  bring  him 
nearer  to  his  object.  “  I  must  not  lose  time,” 
thought  he,  “and  yet  it  would  be  a  great 
thing  if  I  could  find  the  head  of  our  river. 
My  way  lies  southward  :  I  will  try !  ”  On  the 
third  day  he  took  a  boat  at  a  little  village  and 
pulled  against  the  stream  ;  but,  in  the  after¬ 
noon,  he  drew  near  the  rocks,  and  the  current 
became  stronger.  He  pulled  on,  however,  till 
the  steep  grey  walls  were  on  each  side  of  him, 
and  looking  up  he  saw  only  a  strip  of  sky ;  but 
at  length,  with  all  the  strength  of  his  arms, 
he  could  only  keep  the  boat  where  it  was. 
Now  and  then,  with  a  sudden  effort,  he  ad¬ 
vanced  a  few  yards,  but  he  could  not  maintain 
the  place  he  had  won,  and  after  a  while  he 
grew  weary,  and  was  obliged  to  give  it  up  and 
drift  back  again.  “  So,  what  has  been  said 
about  the  rocks  and  the  strength  of  the  water 
is  true,”  thought  he  ;  “I  can  testify  to  that 
at  least.” 

Carl  wandered  for  many  days  before  he  got 
employment ;  and,  when  he  did,  it  was  poorly 
paid,  and  scarcely  sufficed  for  his  living ;  so 


he  was  obliged  to  depai’t  again.  When  half 
his  term  was  completed  he  had  scarcely  saved 
ten  “  gold  gulden,”  though  he  had  walked 
hundreds  of  miles  and  worked  in  many  cities. 
One  day  he  set  out  again,  to  seek  for  employ¬ 
ment  elsewhere.  When  he  had  been  walking 
several  days,  he  came  to  a  small  town  on  the 
bank  of  a  river,  whose  waters  were  so  bright 
that  they  reminded  him  of  the  Klar.  The 
town,  too,  was  so  like  Stromthal  that  he  could 
almost  fancy  that  he  had  made  a  great  circuit 
and  come  back  to  his  starting  place  again.  But 
Carl  did  not  want  to  go  home  yet.  His  term 
was  only  half  expired,  and  his  ten  gold  gulden 
(one  of  which  was  already  nibbled  in  travell¬ 
ing),  would  make  a  poor  figure  after  his  boast 
of  returning  with  fifty.  His  heart  was  not  so 
light  as  when  he  quitted  Margaret  at  the  door 
of  her  father’s  house.  He  had  found  the 
world  different  from  his* expectations  of  it. 
The  harshness  of  strangers  had  soured  him, 
and  there  was  no  pleasure  that  day  in  being 
reminded  of  his  native  town.  If  he  had  not 
been  weary  he  would  have  turned  aside  and 
gone  upon  his  journey  without  stopping ;  but  it 
was  evening,  and  he  wanted  some  refreshment. 

He  walked  through  straggling  streets  that 
reminded  him  still  further  of  his  home,  until 
he  came  to  the  market-place,  in  the  midst  of 
which  stood  a  large  white  statue  of  a  woman. 
She  held  an  olive  branch  in  her  hand  :  her 
head  was  bare,  but  folds  of  drapery  enveloped 
her,  from  the  waist  to  the  feet.  “Whose 
is  this  statue,”  asked  Carl  of  a  bystander  ? 
The  man  answered  in  a  strange  dialect,  but 
Carl  understood  him. 

“  It  is  the  statue  of  our  river,”  he 
answered. 

“  What  is  your  river  called  ?  ” 

“The  Geber:  for  it  enriches  the  town, 
enabling  us  to  trade  with  many  great  cities.” 

“  And  why  is  the  head  of  the  woman  bare 
while  her  feet  are  hidden  ?  ” 

“  Because  we  know  where  the  river  rises  ; 
but,  whither  it  flows  none  know.” 

“  Can  no  one  float  down  with  the  current 
and  see  ?  ” 

“  It  is  dangerous  to  search ;  the  stream 
grows  swifter,  running  between  high  rocks, 
until  it  rushes  into  a  deep  cavern,  and  is  lost.” 

“  How  strange,”  thought  Carl,  “  that  this 
town  should  be,  in  so  many  respects,  so  like 
my  own !  ”  But  a  little  further  on  in  a  narrow 
street,  he  found  a  wooden  house  with  a  small 
tun  hanging  over  the  doorway,  by  way  of 
sign,  so  like  Jacob  Elsen’s  house,  that  if  the 
words  “Peter  Schonfuss,  tun-maker  to  the 
Duke,”  had  not  been  written  above  the  door, 
he  would  have  thought  it  magic.  Carl 
knocked  here,  and  a  young  woman  came  to 
the  door ;  here  the  likeness  ended,  for  Carl 
saw  at  a  glance  that  Margaret  was  a  hundred 
times  more  beautiful  than  she. 

“  I  do  not  know  whether  my  father  wants 
workmen,”  said  the  young  woman  ;  “  but  if 
you  are  a  traveller,  you  can  rest,  and  refresh 
yourself  until  he  comes  in.” 


Charles  Dickens.] 


SOMEBODY’S  STORY. 


9 


Carl  thanked  her,  and  entered.  The  low- 
roofed  kitchen,  so  like  Elsen’s  house,  did  not 
surprise  him  ;  for  most  rooms  were  built  thus 
at  that  time.  The  girl  spread  a  white  cloth, 
gave  him  some  cold  meat  and  bread,  and 
brought  him  some  water  to  wash  ;  but,  while 
he  was  eating  she  asked  him  many  questions, 
concerning  whence  he  came,  and  where  he  had 
been.  She  had  never  heard  of  Stromthal,  for 
she  knew  nothing  of  the  country  beyond  the 
“  Himmelgebirge.”  When  her  father  came 
in,  Carl  saw  that  he  was  much  older  than 
Jacob  Elsen. 

“  And  so  you  want  employment  ? 99  said  the 
father. 

Carl  bowed,  standing  with  his  cap  in  his 
hand. 

“  Follow  me  !  ”  The  old  man  led  the  way 
into  the  workshop — through  the  door  of 
which,  at  the  bottom,  Carl  saw  the  river — and 
putting  the  tools  into  Carl’s  hand,  bade  him 
continue  the  work  of  a  half-finished  tun. 
Carl  handled  his  tools  so  skilfully,  that  the 
old  man  knew  him  at  once  to  be  a  good 
workman,  and  offered  him  better  wages  than 
he  had  ever  got  before.  Carl  remained  here 
until  his  three  years  had  expired.  One  day 
he  said  to  Bertha  Schonfuss  (his  master’s 
daughter),  “  My  time  is  up  now,  Bertha ; 
to-morrow  I  set  out  for  my  home.” 

“  I  will  pray  for  a  happy  journey  for  you/’ 
said  Bertha ;  “  and  that  you  may  find  joy 
at  home.” 

“Look  you,  Bertha,”  said  Carl;  “I  have 
seventy  gold  gulden,  which  I  have  saved. 
Without  these,  I  could  not  have  gone  home, 
or  married  my  Margaret,  of  whom  I  have 
told  you  ;  and,  but  for  you,  I  should  not  have 
had  them.  Ought  I  not  to  remember  you 
gratefully,  while  I  live  1  ” 

“And  come  back  to  see  us  one  day  ?  ”  said 
Bertha.  “  Of  course  you  ought.” 

“  I  surely  will,”  said  Carl,  tying  his  money 
in  the  corner  of  a  handkerchief. 

“  Stay !  ”  cried  Bertha.  “  There  is  danger  in 
carrying  much  money  in  these  parts.  The 
roads  are  infested  with  robbers.” 

“  I  will  make  a  box  for  the  monev.”  said 
Carl. 

“No;  put  them  in  the  hollow  handle  of 
one  of  ycur  tools.  It  is  natural  for  a  work¬ 
man  to  carry  tools.  No  one  will  think  of 
looking  there.” 

“  No  handle  would  hold  them,”  replied  Carl. 
“  I  will  make  a  hollow  mallet,  and  put  them 
in  the  body  of  it.” 

“  A  good  thought,”  said  Bertha. 

Carl  worked  the  next  day,  and  made  a  large 
mallet,  in  which  he  plugged  a  hole  ;  letting  in 
fifty  gold  pieces,  he  retained  the  remainder 
of  his  treasure  to  expend  on  his  journey,  and 
to  buy  clothes  and  other  things  ;  for  he 
could  afford  to  be  extravagant  now.  When 
everything  was  ready,  he  hired  a  boat  to 
travel  down  the  river,  a  portion  of  his  journey. 
The  old  man  bade  him  farewell  affectionately, 
at  the  landing-place  of  his  own  workshop ; 


and  Carl  kissed  Bertha,  and  Bertha  bade  him 
take  care  of  his  mallet. 

The  boy  who  rowed  the  boat,  was  the  ugliest 
boy  that  could  possibly  be.  He  was  very 
short  in  the  legs,  and  very* broad  in  the  chest, 
and  he  had  scarcely  any  neck ;  but  his  face 
was  large  and  round,  and  he  had  two  small 
twinkling  teyes.  His  hair  was  black  and 
straight ;  and  his  arms  were  long,  like  the 
arms  of  an  ape.  Carl  did  not  like  the  look 
of  him  when  he  hired  the  boat,  and  was 
about  to  choose  another  from  the  crowd  of 
boatmen  at  the  landing-place,  when  he  thought 
how  unjust  it  was  to  refuse  to  give  the  boy 
work  on  account  of  his  ugliness,  and  so  turned 
back  and  hired  him. 

Carl  sat  at  the  stern,  and  the  boy  rowed, 
bending  forward  until  his  face  nearly  touched 
his  feet,  and  then  throwing  himself  almost 
flat  upon  his  back,  and  taking  such  pulls 
with  his  long  arms,  that  the  boat  flew  onward 
like  a  crow.  Carl  did  not  rebuke  him,  for 
he  was  too  anxious  to  get  home.  But  the 
boy  grew  bolder  from  his  license.  He  made 
horrible  grimaces  when  he  passed  other 
boats,  tempting  the  rowers  to  throw  things 
at  him.  He  raised  his  oars  sometimes,  and 
.struck  at  a  fish  playing  on  the  surface ;  and, 
each  time,  Carl  saw  the  dead  fish  lying  on  its 
back  on  the  top  of  the  water.  Carl  com¬ 
manded  the  horrible  boy  to  row  on  and  be 
quiet — but  he  replied  in  an  uncouth  dialect  i 
which  Carl  could  scarcely  understand ;  and 
a  moment  after  began  his  tricks  again.  Once, 
Carl  saw  him,  to  his  astonishment,  spring  from 
his  seat,  and  run  along  the  narrow  gunwale 
of  the  boat ;  but  his  naked  feet  clung  to  the 
edge,  as  if  he  had  been  web-footed. 

“  Sit  to  your  oars,  Monkey  !  ”  cried  Carl, 
striking  him  a  light  blow. 

The  boy  sat  down  sullenly  and  rowed  on, 
playing  no  more  tricks  that  day.  Carl  sang 
one  of  the  songs  about  the  “  Klar  ;  ”  and  the 
boat  continued  its  way — through  meadows, 
where  the  banks  were  lined  with  bulrushes, 
and  often  round  little  islands — till  the  dusk 
came  down  from  Heaven.  The  river-surface 
glimmered  with  a  faint  white  light.  The  trees 
upon  the  bank  grew  blacker,  and  the  stars 
spread  westward.  Carl  watched  the  fish, 
making  circles  on  the  stream,  and  let  his  hand 
fall  over  the  side  to  feel  the  water  rippling 
through  his  fingers  as  the  boat  went  on.  But 
growing  weary  after  awhile,  he  wrapped  him¬ 
self  in  his  cloak,  and  placing  his  mallet  beside 
him,  lay  down  in  the  stern,  and  fell  asleep. 
The  town  where  they  were  to  stop  that  night, 
was  further  off  than  they  had  thought  ik  Carl 
slept  a  long  time  and  dreamed.  But,  in  his 
sleep,  he  heard  a  noise  close  to  his  head,  like 
a  splash  in  the  water,  and  awoke.  He  thought, 
at  first,  that  the  boy  had  fallen  in  the  river  ; 
but  he  saw  him  standing  up,  midway,  in  the 
boat. 

“  What  is  the  matter  ?  ”  said  Carl. 

“I  have  dropped  your  hammer  in  the 
stream,”  said  the  boy. 


10  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  [Conducted  by 


iC  Wretch !  ”  cried  Carl,  springing  up  ;  “  how 
was  this  ?  ” 

“  Spare  me,  my  master/’  said  the  boy  with 
an  ugly  grin.  “  It  flew  out  of  my  hand  as  I 
tried  to  strike  a  flying  bat.”  Carl  was  furious. 
He  struck  at  him  several  times  ;  but  the  boy 
avoided  him,  slipping  under  his  arm,  and  run¬ 
ning  again  along  the  gunwale.  Carl  became 
still  more  furious,  and  fell  upon  him  once,  so 
violently,  that  the  boat  overturned,  and  they 
both  fell  into  the  river.  And  now,  Carl  find¬ 
ing  that  the  boy  could  not  swim,  thought 
no  more  of  his  mallet  Rut  grasped  him,  and 
struck  out  for  the  bank.  The  current  was 
strong,  and  carried  them  far  down  ;  but  they 
came  ashore,  at  last.  They  could  see  the 
lights  of  the  town  near  at  hand,  and  Carl 
walked  on  sullenly,  bidding  the  boy  follow 
him.  When  they  came  near  the  town  gate, 
he  turned  and  found  that  the  boy  was  gone. 
He  called  to  him,  and  turned  back  a  little 
way,  and  called  again  ;  but  he  had  no  answer  ; 
and  at  last  he  walked  on,  and  saw  the  boy 
no  more. 

Carl  could  not  sleep  that  night.  At  day¬ 
light,  he  offered  nearly  all  the  money  he  had 
retained,  for  a  boat,  and  set  out  alone  down 
the  river.  He  thought  that  his  mallet  must 
have  floated,  in  spite  of  the  weight  of  the 
gold  pieces,  and  he  hoped  to  overtake  it.  But 
though  he  looked  everyway  as  he  went  along, 
and  though  he  rowed  on  all  day  without 
resting,  he  saw  nothing  of  it.  He  passed  no 
more  islands.  The  banks  became  very  desolate 
and  lonely.  The  wind  dropped.  The  water 
was  dark,  as  if  a  thunder-cloud  hung  over  it 
And  now  the  stream  ran  swifter,  winding 
between  rocks  like  the  Klar.  The  wall  on 
each  side  became  higher  and  higher,  and 
the  boat  went  on  faster  and  faster,  so  that  he 
seemed  to  be  sinking  into  the  earth,  until  he 
caught  sight  of  the  entrance  to  the  cavern, 
of  which  'the  stranger  had  spoken  to  him  ; 
and  at  the  same  moment  he  espied  his  mallet 
floating  on  a  few  yards  in  advance.  But  the 
boat  began  to  spin  round  and  round  in  an 
eddy,  and  he  felt  sick.  He  saw  the  mallet 
float  into  the  cavern  ;  when  the  boat  came 
to  the  mouth,  he  caught  at  the  sides  and 
stopped  it.  Peering  into  the  darkness,  he 
saw  small  flashes  of  light  floating  in  the 
gloom ;  he  could  see  nothing  else ;  and 
there  was  a  great  roar  and  rushing  of  water. 
He  was  obliged  to  give  up  the  pursuit ;  but 
it  was  not  easy  to  go  back  against  the  stream, 
as  the  oars  would  not  help  him  to  stem  the 
current.  He  kept  close  to  the  side,  however, 
where  the  stream  was  weaker,  and  urged  his 
way  along,  by  clutching  at  ledges  and  sharp 
corners  in  the  rock.  In  this  way,  he  moved 
on  slowly  all  night  ;  and,  a  little  after  dawn, 
got  again  above  the  rocks,  and  went  ashore. 
He  was  very  weak  and  tired.  He  flung  him¬ 
self  upon  the  hard  ground  and  slept.  When 
he  awoke,  he  ate  a  small  loaf  which  he  had 
brought  with  him,  and  went  on  his  way. 

Carl  wandered,  for  many  a  day,  in  those 


desolate  regions,  and  passed  many  forests, 
and  crossed  rivers,  and  wore  out  liis  shoes, 
before  he  found  his  way  back  to  Stromthal. 
His  heart  failed  him  when  he  came  to  the 
dear  old  town.  He  was  tempted  to  go  back 
for  another  three  years,  but  he  could  not 
make  up  his  mind  to  turn  away  without 
seeing  Margaret ;  “  and  besides,”  thought  lie, 
“Jacob  Elsen  is  a  good  man.  When  he  hears 
that  I  have  worked,  and  earned  this  money, 
though  I  have  if  no  longer,  lie  will  give  me 
his  daughter.” 

He  wandered  about  the  streets,  a  long  time 
and  saw  many  persons  whom  he  knew,  but 
who  had  forgotten  him.  At  last  he  turned 
boldly  into  the  street  where  Jacob  lived,  and 
knocked  at  his  old  home.  Jacob  came  to 
the  door  himself. 

“  The 1  Wanderbursche  ’  is  come  home,”  cried 
Jacob,  embracing  him.  “  Margaret’s  heart 
will  be  glad.” 

Carl  followed  the  tun-maker  in  silence.  He 
felt  as  if  he  had  been  guilty  of  some  bad 
action.  He  scarcely  knew  how  to  begin  the 
story  of  his  lost  mallet. 

“  How  thin  and  pale  you  are  1  ”  said  Jacob. 

“  I  hope  you  have  led  a  strict  life  ?  But  these 
fine  clothes — they  hardly  suit  a  young  work¬ 
man.  You  must  have  found  a  treasure.” 

“  Nay,”  replied  Carl.  “  I  have  lost  all ; 
even  the  fifty  gold  gulden  that  I  had  earned  1 
by  the  work  of  my  hands.” 

The  old  man’s  face  darkened.  Carl’s  hag¬ 
gard  look,  his  fine  apparel,  all  travel-soiled, 
and  his  confusion  and  silence,  awakened  his 
suspicions.  When  Carl  told  his  story;  it 
seemed  so  strange  and  improbable,  that  he 
shook  his  head. 

“  Carl,”  he  said,  “  you  have  dwelt  in  evil 
cities.  Would  to  Heaven  you  had  died  when 
you  first  learnt  to  shave  the  staves,  rather 
than  have  lived  to  be  a  liar  !  ” 

Carl  made  no  answer ;  he  turned  away  to 
go  out  into  the  street  again.  On  the  threshold 
he  met  Margaret.  He  did  not  speak  to  her, 
but  passed  on,  leaving  her  staring  after  him 
in  astonishment.  All  night  long,  he  walked 
about  the  streets  of  the  town.  He  thought 
of  going  back  to  the  house  of  old  Peter  Schon- 
fuss  and  his  daughter  Bertha  ;  but,  his  pride 
restrained  him.  He  resolved  to  go  away  and 
seek  work  again,  somewhere  at  a  distance. 
But  his  unkindness  to  Margaret  smote  him  ; 
and  he  wished  to  see  her  again  before  he 
went.  He  lingered  in  the  street  after  day¬ 
light,  until  he  saw  her  open  the  door  ;  then 
he  went  up  to  her. 

“  O  Carl !  ”  said  Margaret,  “  this  then  is 
what  I  have  for  three  long  years  looked 
forward  to  !  ” 

u  Listen  to  me,  Margaret  dear !  ”  urged  Carl. 

“  I  dare  not,”  said  Margaret.  “  My  father 
has  forbidden  me.  I  can  only  bid  you  fare¬ 
well,  and  pray  that  my  father  may  find,  one 
day,  he  is  wrong.” 

“  I  have  told  him  only  the  truth,”  cried 
Carl ;  but  Margaret  went  in,  and  left  him 


Charles  Dicken.J  THE  OLD  NURSE’S  STORY.  11 

there.  Carl  waited  a .  moment,  and  then  de- 
termined  to  follow  her,  and  entreat  her  to 
believe  in  his  •  innocence  before  he  departed. 
He  lifted  the  latch  and  entered  the  house, 
passing  through  the  kitchen  into  the  yard ; 
but  Margaret  was  not  there.  He  went  into 
the  workshop  and  found  himself  alone  there  ; 
for  the  workmen  had  not  come  yet,  and 
Margaret  was  the  first  person  up  in  the 
house.  His  misfortunes,  and  the  injustice 
he  had  experienced,  came  into  his  mind,  as  if 
some  voice  were  whispering  in  his  ear:  the 
whole  world  seemed  to  be  against  him.  “  I 
cannot  bear  this/’  he  said,  “  I  must  die  !  ” 

He  unlatched  the  wooden  bar,  and  threw 
open  the  doors,  letting  the  light  of  day  into 
the  dusky  shop.  It  was  a  clear  fresh  morn¬ 
ing  ;  and  the  river,  brimming  with  the  rains  of 
the  day  before,  flowed  on,  smooth  and  flush 
to  the  edge.  “  Of  all  my  hopes,  my  patience, 
my  industry,  my  long  sufferings,  and  my  deep 
love  for  Margaret,  behold  the  miserable  end !  ” 
said  Carl. 

But  he  stopped  suddenly  ;  his  eye  had 
caught  some  object,  in  between  the  birch 
stakes  and  the  bank.  “  Strange,”  he  said,  “It 
is  a  mallet,  and  much  like  the  one  J  lost ! 
Some  of  Jacob  Elsen’s  workmen  have  dropped 
a  mallet  here,  surely”  But  it  was  larger 
than  an  ordinary  mallet,  and,  though  it  was 
madness  to  fancy  so,  he  thought  that  some 
supernatural  power  had  brought  his  mallet 
there,  in  time  to  turn  him  from  his  purpose. 
"  It  is  my  mallet !  ”  he  cried  ;  for  by  stooping 
down  he  could  see  the  mark  of  the  hole  he 
had  plugged.  He  did  not  wait  to  take  it  up, 
it  being  safe  for  awhile  where  it  was  :  he 
ran  back  into  the  house,  and  met  Jacob  Elsen 
descending  the  stairs. 

“I  have  found  my  mallet,”  said  Carl  ; 
“  Where  is  Margaret  ?  ” 

The  tun-maker  looked  incredulous.  Mar¬ 
garet  heard  his  call,  and  came  down  stairs. 

“  This  way !  ”  said  Carl,  leading  them 
through  the  shop.  “  Look  there !  ”  Both 
Margaret  and  her  father  ,  saw  it.  Carl 
stooped  and  picked  it  up,  and,  taking  the  plug 
out,  shook  all  the  gold  pieces  on  the  ground. 
Jacob  shook  his  hand,  and  begged  him  to 
pardon  him  for  his  unjust  suspicions ;  and 
Margaret  wept  tears  of  joy.  “  It  came  just 
in  time  to  save  my  life,”  said  Carl.  “  Happy 
days  will  come  with  it.” 

u  But,  how  did  this  mallet  arrive  here  ?  ” 
said  Jacob,  pondering. 

“  I  guess,”  replied  Carl,  “  I  have  found  the 
origin  of  the  Klar.  The  two  rivers  are,  in 
truth,  but' one.” 

Carl  wrote  the  story  of  his  adventures,  and 
presented  it  to  the  Town  Council,  who 
employed  all  the  scholars  in  Stromthal  to 
prove  by  experiments  the  identity  of  the  two 
rivers.  When  they  had  done  this,  there  was 
great  rejoicing  in  the  town.  On  the  day 
when  Carl  married  Margaret,  he  received  the 
promised  reward  of  five  hundred  gold  gulden  ; 
and  thenceforth  the  day  on  which  he  found 

his  mallet  was  set  apart  for  a  festival  by  the 
inhabitants  of  all  the  towns,  both  on  the 
“  Geber  ”  and  the  “Klar.” 

THE  OLD  NURSE’S  STORY, 

You  know,  my  dears,  that  your  mother 
was  an  orphan,  and  an  only  child  ;  and  I 
dare  say  you  have  heard  that  your  grand¬ 
father  was  a  clergyman  up  in  Westmoreland, 
where  I  come  from.  I  was  just  a  girl  in  the 
village  school,  when,  one  day,  your  grand¬ 
mother  came  in  to  ask  the  mistress  if  there 
was  any  scholar  there  who  would  do  for  a 
nurse-maid ;  and  mighty  proud  I  was,  I  can 
tell  ye,  when  the  mistress  called  me  up,  and 
spoke  to  my  being  a  good  girl  at  my  needle,  and 
a  steady  honest  girl,  and  one  whose  parents 
were  very  respectable,  though  they  might  be 
poor.  I  thought  I  should  like  nothing  better 
than  to  serve  the  pretty  young  lady,  who  was 
blushing  as  deep  as  I  was,  as  she  spoke  of  the 
coining  baby,  and  what  I  should  have  to  do 
with  it.  However,  I  see  you  don’t  care  so 
much  for  this  part  of  my  story,  as  for  what 
you  think  is  to  come,  so  I’ll  tell  you  at  once 

I  was  engaged,  and  settled  at  the  parsonage 
before  Miss  Rosamond,  (that  was  the  baby, 
who  is  now  your  mother)  was  born.  To  be 
sure,  I  had  little  enough  to  do  with  her  when 
she  came,  for  she  was  never'  out  of  her 
mother’s  arms,  and  slept  by  her  all  night 
long;  and ( proud  enough  was  I  sometimes 
when  missis  trusted  her  to  me.  There  never 
was  such  a 'baby  before  or  [since,  though 
you’ve  all  of  you  been  fine  enough  in  your 
turns  ;  but  for  sweet  winning  ways,  you’ve 
none  of  you  come  up  to  your  mother.  She 
took  after  her  mother, 'who  was  a  real  lady 
born ;  a  Miss  Furnivall,  a  granddaughter  of 
Lord  Furnivall’s  in  Northumberland.  I 
believe  she'  had  neither  brother  nor  sister, 
and  had  been  brought  up  in  my  lord’s  family 
till  she  had  married  your  grandfather,  who 
was  just  a  curate,  son  to  a  shopkeeper  in 
Carlisle — but  a  clever  -fine  gentleman  as  ever 
was — and  one  who  was  a  right-down  hard 
worker  in  his  parish,  which  was  very  wide, 
and  scattered  all  abroad  over  the  Westmore¬ 
land  Fells.  When  your  mother,  little  Miss 
Rosamond,  was  about  four  or  five  years  old, 
both  her  parents  died  in  a  fortnight — one 
after  the  other.  Ah  !  that  was  a  sad  time. 

My  pretty  young  mistress  and  me  was  look¬ 
ing  for  another  baby,  when  my  master  came 
home  from  one  of  his  long  rides,  wet  and 
tired,  and  took  the  fever  lie  died  of;  and 
then  she  never  held  up  her  head  again,  but 
just  lived  to  see  her  dead  baby,  and  have  it 
laid  on  her  breast  before  she  sighed  away 
her  life.  My  mistress  had  asked  me,  on  her 
deatii-bed,  never  to  leave  Miss  Rosamond ;  but 
if  she  had  never  spoken  a  word,  I  would  have 
gone  with  the  little  child  to  the  end  of  the 
world.  v  r 

The  next  thing,  and  before  we  had  well 
stilled  our  sobs,  the  executors  and  guardians 

-  !i 

12  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  [Conducted by 


came  to  settle  the  affairs.  They  were  my 
poor  young  mistress’s  own  cousin,  Lord 
Furnivall,  and  Mr.  Esthwaite,  my  master’s 
brother,  a  shopkeeper  in  Manchester  ;  not  so 
well  to  do  then,  as  he  was  afterwards,  and 
with  a  large  family  rising  about  him.  Well ! 
I  don’t  know  if  it  were  their  settling,  or  be¬ 
cause  of  a  letter  my  mistress  wrote  on  her 
death-bed  to  her  cousin,  my  lord  ;  but  some¬ 
how  it  was  settled  that  Miss  Rosamond  and 
me  Avere  to  ^o  to  Furnivall  Manor  House,  in 
Northumberland,  and  my  lord  spoke  as  if  it  had 
been  her  mother’s  wish  that  she  should  live 
with  his  family,  and  as  if  he  had  no  objections,- 
for  that  one  or  two  more  or  less  could  make 
no  difference  in  so  grand  a  household.  So, 
though  that  was  not  the  way  in  which  I 
should  have  wished  the  coming  of  my  bright 
and  pretty  pet  to  have  been  looked  at — who 
was  like  a  sunbeam  in  any  family,  be  it  never 
so  grand— I  was  well  pleased  that  all  the  folks 
in  the  Dale  should  stare  and  admire,  when 
they  heard  I  was  going  to  be  young  lady’s  maid 
at  my  Lord  FurnivalTs  at  Furnivall  Manor. 

But  I  made  a  mistake  in  thinking  we  were 
to  go  and  live  where  my  lord  did.  It  turned 
out  that  the  family  had  left  Furnivall  Manor 
House  fifty  years  or  more.  I  could  not 
hear  that  my  poor  young  mistress  had  ever 
been  there,  though  she  had  been  brought  up 
in  the  family  ;  and  I  was  sorry  for  that,  for 
I  should  have  liked  Miss  Rosamond’s  youth 
to  have  passed  where  her  mother’s  had  been. 

My  lord’s  gentleman,  from  whom  I  asked 
as  many  questions  as  I  durst,  said  that  the 
Manor  House  was  at  the  foot  of  the  Cumber¬ 
land  Fells,  and  a  very  grand  place ;  that  an 
old  Miss  Furnivall,  a  great-aunt  of  my  lord’s, 
lived  there,  with  only  a  few  servants  ;  but 
that  it  was  a  very  healthy  place,  and  my  lord 
had  thought  that  it  would  suit  Miss  Rosa¬ 
mond  very  well  for  a  few  years,  and  that  her 
being  there  might  perhaps  amuse  his  old 
aunt.  ~ 

I  was  bidden  by  my  lord  to  have  Miss 
Rosamond’s  things  ready  by  a  certain  day. 
lie  was  a  stern,  proud  man,  as  they  say  all 
the  Lord  Furnivalls  were ;  and  he  never 
spoke  a  word  more  than  was  necessary.  Folk 
did  say  he  had  loved  my  young  mistress ; 
but  that,  because  she  knew  that  his  father 
would  object,  she  would  never  listen  to  him, 
and  married  Mr.  Esthwaite ;  but  I  don’t 
know.  He  never  married  at  any  rate;  But 
he  never  took  much  notice  of  Miss  Rosa¬ 
mond  ;  which  I  thought  he  might  have  done 
if  he  had  cared  for  her  dead  mother.  He  sent 
his  gentleman  with  11s  to  the  Manor  House, 
telling  him  to  join  him  at  Newcastle  that 
same  evening  ;  so  there  was  no  great  length 
of  time  for  him  to  make  us  known  to  all  the 
strangers  before  he,  too,  shook  us  off ;  and  we 
[  were  left,  two  lonely  young  things  (I  was  not 
eighteen),  in  the  great  old  M&nor  House.  It 
seems  like  yesterday  that  we  drove  there.  We 
had  left  our  own  dear  parsonage  very  early, 
and  we  had  both  cried  as  if  our  hearts  would 


break,  though  we  were  travelling  in  my  lord’s 
carriage,  which  I  had  thought  so  much  of 
once.  And  now  it  was  long  past  noon  on  a 
September  day,  and  we  stopped  to  change 
horses  for  the  last  time  at  a  little  smoky 
town,  all  full  of  colliers  and  miners.  Miss 
Rosamond  had  fallen  asleep,  but  Mr.  Henry 
told  me  to  waken  her,  that  she  might  see  the 
ark  and  the  Manor  House  as  we  drove  up. 

thought  it  rather  a  pity  ;  but  I  did  what  he 
bade  me,  for  fear  he  should  complain  of  me 
to  my  lord.  We  had  left  all  signs  of  a  town 
or  even  a  village,  and  were  then  inside  the 
gates  of  a  large  wild  park — not  like  the  paries 
here  in  the  south,  but  with  rocks,  and  the 
noise  of  running  water,  and  gnarled  thorn- 
trees,  and  old  oaks,  all  white  and  peeled 
with  age. 

The  road  went  up  about  two  miles,  and 
then  we  saw  a  great  and  stately  house,  with 
many  trees  close  around  it,  so  close  that  in 
some  places  their  branches  dragged  against 
the  walls  when  the  wind  blew ;  and  some 
hung  broken  down  ;  for  no  one  seemed  to 
take  much- charge  of  the  place  ; — to  lop  the 
wood,  or  to  keep  the  moss-covered  carriage¬ 
way  tn  order.  Only  in  front  of  the  house  all  . 
was  clear.  The  great  oval  drive  was  without 
a ,  weed ;  and  neither  tree  nor  creeper  was 
allowed  to  grow  over  the  long, many-windowed 
front ;  at  both  sides  of  which  a  wing  projected, 
which  were  each  the  ends  of  other  side  fronts ; 
for  the  house,  although  it  was  so  desolate, 
was  even  grander  than  I  expected.  Behind 
it  rose  the  Fells,  which  seemed  unenclosed 
and  bare  enough  ;  and  ‘on  the  left  hand  of  the 
house  as  you  stood  facing  it,  was  a  little  old- 
fashioned  flower-garden,  as  I  found  out  after¬ 
wards.  A  door  opened  out  upon  it  from  the 
west  front ;  it  had  been  scooped  out  of  the 
thick  dark  wood  for  some  old  Lady  Furni¬ 
vall  ;  but  the  branches  of  the  great  forest 
trees  had  grown  and  overshadowed  it  again, 
and  there  were  very  few  flowers  that  would 
live  there  at  that  time. 

When  we  drove  up  to  the  great  front 
entrance.,  and  went  into  the  hall  I  thought 
we  should  be  lost — it  was  so  large,  and  vast, 
and  grand.  There  was  a  chandelier  all  of 
bronze,  hung  down  from  the  middle  of  the 
ceiling  ;  and  I  had  never  seen  one  before,  and 
looked  at  it  all  in  amaze-  Then,  at  one  end  of 
the  hall,  was  a  great  fire-place,  as  large  as  the 
sides  of  the  houses  in  my  country,  with  massy 
andirons  and  dogs  to  hold  the  wood ;  and 
by  it  Were  heavy  old-fashioned  sofas.  At.  the 
opposite  end  of  the  hall,  to  the  left  as  you  * 
went  in — on  the  western  side — was  an  organ 
built  into  the  wall,  and  so  large  that  it  filled 
up  the  best  part  of  that  end.  Beyond  it,  on 
the  same  side,  was  a  door ;  and  opposite,  on 
e&eh  side  of  the  fire-place,  were  also  doors 
leading  to  the  east  front ;  but  those  I  never 
went  through  as  long  as  I  stayed  in  the  house, 
so  I  can’t  tell  you  what  lay  beyond. 

The  afternoon  was  closing  in,  and  the  hall, 
which  had  no  fire  lighted  in  it,  looked  dark  and 


Charles  Dickens.] 


THE  OLD  NURSE’S  STORY. 


13 


gloomy ;  but  we  did  not  stay  there  a  moment. 
Tlie  old  servantfwho  had  opened  the  door  for 
us  bowed  to  Mr.  Henry,  and  took  ns  in 
through  the  door  at  the  further  side  of  the 
great  organ,  and  led  us  through  several 
smaller''  halls  and  passages  into  the  west 
driving* room,  where  he  said  that  Miss  Fur- 
nival  1  was  sitting.  Poor  little  Miss  Rosamond 
held  very  tight  to  me,  as  if  she  were  scared 
and  lost  in  that  great  place,  and,  as  for  myself, 
I  was  not  much  better.  The  west  drawing¬ 
room  was  very  cheerful -looking,  with  a  warm 
fire  in  it,  and  plenty  of  good  comfortable  fur¬ 
niture  about.  Miss  Furnivall  was  an  old 
lady  not  far  from,  eighty,  I  should  think,  but 
I  do  not  know.  She  was  thin  and  tall,  and 
had  a  face  as  full  of  fine  wrinkles  as  if  they 
had  been  drawn  all  over  it  with  a  needle’s 
point.  Her  eyes  were  very  watchful,  to  make 
up,  I  suppose,  for  her  being  so  deaf  as  to  be 
obliged  to  \ise  a  trumpet.  Sitting  with  her, 
working  at  the  same  great  piece  of  tapestry, 
was  Mrs.  Stark,  her  maid  and  companion,  and 
almost  as  old  as  she  was.  She  had  lived  with 
Miss  Furnivall  ever  since  they  both  were 
young,  and  now  she  seemed  more  like  a  friend 
than  a  servant ;  she  looked .  so  cold  and  grey, 
and  stony,  as  if  she  had  never  loved  or  cared 
for  any  one  ;  and  I  don’t  suppose  she  did  care 
for  any  one,  except  her  mistress  ;  and,  owing 
to  the  great  deafness  of  the  latter,  Mrs.  Stark 
treated  her  very  much  as  if  she  were  a  child. 
Mr.  Henry  gave  some  message  from  my  lord, 
and  then  he  bowed  good-bye  to  us  all, — 
taking  no  notice  of  my  sweet  little  Miss 
Rosamond’s  out- stretched  hand- — and  left  us 
stauding  there,  being  looked  at  by  the  two 
old  ladies  through  their  spectacles. 

I  was  right  glad  when  they  rung  for  the 
old  footman  who  had  shown  us  in  at  "first, 
and  told  him  to  take  us  to  our  rooms.  So  we 
went  out  of  that  great  drawing-room,  and 
into  another  sitting-room,  and  out  of  that, 
and  then  up  a  great  flight  of  stairs,  and  along 
a  broad  gallery— which  was  something  like  a 
library,  having  books  all  down  one  side,  and 
windows  and  writing-tables  all  down  the  other 
— till  we  came  to  our  rooms,  which  I  was  not 
sorry  to  hear  were  just  over  the  kitchens  ;  for 
I  began  to  think  I  should  be  lost  in  that  wilder¬ 
ness  of  a  house.  There  was  an  old  nursery, 
that  had  been  used  for  all  the  little  lords  and 
ladies  long  ago,  with  a  pleasant  fire  burning 
in  the  grate,  aiid  the  kettle  boiling  on  the  hob, 
and  tea  things  spread  out  on  .the  table  ;  and 
out  of  that  room  was  the  night-nursery,  with 
a  little  crib  for  Miss  Rosamond  close  to  my 
bed.  And  old  James  called  up  Dorothy,  his 
wife,  to  bid  us  welcome  ;  and  both  Tie  and 
she  were  so  hospitable  and  kind,  that  by-and- 
by  Miss  Rosamond  and  me  felt  quite  at  home  ; 
and  by  the  time  tea  was  over,  she  was  sitting 
on  Dorothy’s  knee,  and  chattering  away  as  fast 
as  her  little  tongue  could  go.  I  soon  found 
out  that  Dorothy  was  from  Westmoreland, 
and  that  bound  her  and  me  together,  as  it 
were  ;  and  I  would  never  wish  to  meet  with 


kinder  people  than  were  old  James  and  his 
wife.  James  had  lived  pretty  nearly  all  his 
life  in  my  lord’s  family,  and  thought  there 
was  no  one  so  grand  as  they.  He  even  looked 
down  a  little  on  his  wife  ;  because,  till  he  had 
married  her,  she  had  never  lived  in  any  but  a 
farmer’s  household.  But  he  was  very  fond  of 
her,  as  well  he  might  be.  "  They  had  one 
servant  under  them,  to  do  all  the  rough  work. 
Agnes  they  called  her ;  and  she  and  me,  and  , 
James  and  Dorothy,  with  Miss  Furnivall  and 
Mrs.  Stark,  made  up  the  family;  always  \ 
remembering  my  sweet  little  Miss  Rosamond  ! 

I  used-  to  wonder. what  they  had  done  before 
she  came,  they  thought  so  much  of  her  now. 
Kitchen  and  drawing-room,  it  was  all  the 
same.  -  The  hard,  sad  Miss  Furnivall,  and  the 
cold  Mrs.  Stark,  looked  pleased  when  she  1 
came  fluttering  in  like  a  bird,  playing  and .  | 
pranking  hither  and  thither,  with  a  continual 
murmur,  and  pretty  prattle  of  gladness.  I 
am  surest  hey  were  sorry  many  a  time  when 
she  flitted  away  into  the  kitchen,  though  they 
were  too  proud  to  ask  her  to  stay  with  them, 
and  were  a  little  ,  surprised  at  her  taste  ; 
though,  to  be  sure,  as  Mrs.  Stark  said,  it  was 
not  to  be  wondered  at,  remembering  wliat 
stock  her  father  had  come  of.  The  great,  old  [ 
rambling  house,  was  a  famous  place  for  little 
Miss  Rosamond.  Slie  made  expeditions  all 
over  it,  with  me  at  her  heels  ;  all,  except  the 
east  wing,  which  was  never  opened,  and 
whither  we  never  thought  of  going.  But  in  j 
the  western  and  northern  part  was  many  a 
pleasant  room ;  full  of  things  that  were 
curiosities  to  us,  though  they  might  not  have 
been  to  people  who  had  seen  more.  The 
windows  were  darkened  by  the  sweeping 
boughs  of  the  trees,  and  the  ivy  which  haa 
overgrown  them :  but,  in  the  green  gloom,  we 
could  manage  to  see  old  China  jars  and 
carved  ivory  boxes,  and  great  heavy  books, 
and,  above  all,  the  old  pictures  ! 

Once,  I  remember,  my  darling-  would  have 
Dorothy  go  with  us  to  tell  us  who  they  all 
were  ;  for  they  were  all  portraits  of  some  of 
my  lord’s  family,  though  Dorothy  could  not  ' 
tell  us  the  names  of  every  one.  WeJhad  gone 
through  most  of  the  rooms,  when  we  came  to 
the' old  state  drawing-room  over  the  hall,  and 
there  was  a  picture  of  Miss  Furnivall  ;  or,  as 
she  was  called  in  those  days,  Miss  Grace,  for 
she  was  the.  younger  sister.  j4  Such  a  beauty 
she  must  have  been  !  but  with,  such  a  set, 
proud  look,  and  such  scorn  looking  out  of  her 
handsome  eyes,  with  her  eyebrows  just  a  little 
raised,  as  if  she  wondered  how  any  one  could 
have  the  impertinence  to  look  at  her ;  and 
her  lip  curled  at  us,  as  we  stood  there  gazing. 
She  had  a  dress  on,  the  like  of  which  I  had 
never  seen  before,  but  it  was  all  the  fashion 
when  she  was  young  ;  a  hat  of  some  soft 
white  stuff  like  beaver,  pulled  a  little  over 
her  brows,  and  a  beautiful  plume  of  feathers 
sweeping  round  it  on  one  side ;  and  her  gown 
of  blue  satin  was  open  in  front  to  a  quilted 
white  stomacher.  , 


14  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  (Coveted  by 

j 

f 

i 

“  Well,  to  be  sure  !  ”  said  I,  when  I  had 
gazed  my  fill.  “  Flesh  is  grass,  they  do  say  ; 
but  who  would  have  thought  that  Miss  Fur- 
nivall  had  been  such  an  out-and-out  beauty, 
to  see  her  now  ?  ” 

“  Yes,”  said  Dorothy.  “  Folks  change 
sadly.  But  if  what  my  master’s  father  used 
to  say  was  true,  Miss  Furnivall,  the  elder 
sister,  was  handsomer  than  Miss  Grace.  Her 
picture  is  here  somewhere  ;  but,  if  I  show  it 
you,  you  must  never  let  on,  even  to  James, 
that  you  have  seen  it.  Can  the  little  lady 
hold  her  tongue,  think  you  1  ”  asked  she. 

I  was  not  so  sure,  for  she  was  such  a  little 
sweet,  bold,  open-spoken  child,  so  I  set  her 
to  hide  herself ;  and  then  I  helped  Dorothy 
to  turn  a  great  picture,  that  leaned  with 
its  face  towards  the  wall,  and  was  not 
hung  up  as  the  others  were.  To  be  sure,  it 
beat  Miss  Grace  for  beauty  ;  and,  I  think,  for 
scornful  pride,  too,  though  in  that  matter  it 
might  be  hard  to  choose.  I  could'  have 
looked  at  it  an  hour,  but  Dorothy  seemed 
half  frightened  of  having  shown  it  to  me,  and 
hurried  it  back  again,  and  bade  me  run 
and  find  Miss  .Rosamond,  for  that  there  were 
some  ugly  places  about  the  house,  where  she 
should  like  ill  for  the  child  to  go.  I  was  a 
brave,  high-spirited  girl,  and  thought  little 
of  what  the  old  woman  said,  for  I  liked  hide- 
and-seek  as  well  as  any  child  in  the  parish ; 
so  off  I  ran  to  find  my  little  one. 

.  'As  winter  drew  on,  and  the  days  grew 
shorter,  I  was  sometimes  almost  certain  that 
I  heard  a  noise  as  if  some  one  was  playing 
on  the  great  organ  in  the  hall.  I  did  not 
hear  it  every  evening ;  but,  certainly,  I  did 
very  often  ;  usually  when  I  was  sitting  with 
Miss  Rosamond,  after  I  had  put  her  to  bed, 
and  keeping  quite  still  and  silent  in  the  bed¬ 
room.  Then  I  used  to  hear  it  booming  and 
swelling  away  in  the  distance.  The  “first 
night,  when  I  went  down  to  iny  supper,  I 
asked  Dorothy  who  had  been  playing  music, 
and  James  said  very  shortly  that  I  was  a 
gowk  to  take  the  wind  soughing  among  the 
trees  for  music ;  but  I  saw  Dorothy  look  at 
him  very  fearfully,  and  Bessy,  the  kitchen- 
maid,  said  something  beneath  her  breath,  and 
went  quite  white.  I  saw  they  did  not  like 
my  question,  so  I  held  my  peace  till  I  was 
with  Dorothy  alone,  when  I  knew  I  could 
get  a  good  deal  out  of  her.  So,  the  next  day,  I 
watched  my  time,  and  I  coaxed  and  asked 
her  who  it  was  that  played  the  organ  ;  for  I 
knew  that  it  was  the  organ  and  not  the  wind 
well  enough,  for  all  I  had  kept  silence  before 
James.  But  Dorothy  had  had  her  lesson,  I  ’ll 
warrant,  and  never  a  word  could  I  get  from 
her.  So  then  I  tried  Bessy,  thougn  I  had 
always  held  my  head  rather  above  her,  as  I 
was  evened  to  James  and  Dorothy,  and  she 
was  little  better  than  their  servant.  So  she 
said  I  must  never,  never  tell ;  and,  if  I  ever 
told,  I  was  never  to  say  she  had  told  me ;  but 
it  was  a  very  strange  noise,  and  she  had 
heard  it  many  a  time,  but  most  of  all  on, 

winter  nights,  and  before  storms  ;  and  folks 
did  say,  it  was  the  old  lord  playing  on  the 
great  organ  in  the  hall,  just  as  he  used  to  do 
when  he  was  alive  ;  but  who  the  old  lord  was, 
or  why  he  played,  and  why  he  played  on 
stormy  winter  evenings  in  particular,  she 
either  could  not  or  would  not  tell  me.  '"Weill  “ 

I  told  you  I  had  a  brave  heart ;  and  I  thought 
it  was  rather  pleasant  to  have  that  grand 
music  rolling  about  the  house,  let  who  would 
be  the  player;  for  now  it  rose  above  the 
great  gusts  of  wind,  and  wailed  and  triumphed 
just  like  a  living  creature,  and  then  it  fell  to 
a  softness  most  complete  ;  only  it  was  always 
music  and  tunes,  so  it  was  nonsense  to  call  it 
the  wind.  I  thought,  at  first,  it  might  be 
Miss  Furnivall  who  played,  unknown  to 
Bessy ;  but,  one  day  when  I  was  in  the  hall 
by  myself,  I  opened  the  organ  and  peeped  all 
about  it,  and  around  it,  as  I  had  done  to  the 
organ  in  Crosthwaite  Church  once  before, 
and  I  saw  it  was  all  broken  and  destroyed 
inside,  though  it  looked  so  brave  and  fine  ; 
and  then,  though  it  was  noon-day,  my  flesh 
began  to  creep  a  little,  and  I  shut  it  up,  and 
ran  away  pretty  quickly  to  my  own  bright 
nursery  ;  and  I  did  not  like  hearing  the' 
music  for  some  time  after  that,  any  more 
than  James  and  Dorothy  did.  All  this  time 
Miss  Rosamond  was  making  herself  more  ' 
and  more  beloved.  The  old  ladies  liked  her 
to  dine  with  them  at  their  early  dinner ; 
James  stood  behind  Miss  Furnivall’s  chair, 
and  I  behind  Miss  Rosamond’s,  all  in  state ; 
and,  after  dinner,  she  would  play  about  in  a 
corner  of  the  great  drawing-room,  as  still  as 
any  mouse,  while  Miss  Furnivall  slept,  and  I 
had  my  dinner  in  the  kitchen.  But  she  was 
glad  enough  to  come  to  me  in  the  nursery 
afterwards  ;  for,  as  she  said,  Miss  Furnivall 
was  "so  sad,  and  Mrs.  Stark  so  dull ;  but  she 
and  I  were  merry  enough  ;  and,  by-and-by, 

I  got  not  to  care  for  that  weird  rolling  music, 
which  did  one  no  harm,  if  we  did  not  know 
where  it  came  from. 

That  winter  was  very  cold.  In  the  middle 
of  October  the  frosts  began,  and  lasted  many, 
many  weeks.  I  remember,  one  day  at  dinner, 
Miss  Furnivall  lifted  up  her  sad,  heavy  eyes, 
and  said  to  Mrs.  Stark,  “  I  am  afraid  we  shall 
have  a  terrible  winter,”  in  a  strange  kind  of 
meaning  way.  But  Mrs.  Stark  pretended 
not  to  hear,  and  talked  very  loud  of  some¬ 
thing  else.  My  little  lady  and  I  did  not  care 
for  the  frost ; — not  we  !  As  long  as  it  was 
dry  we  climbed  up  the  steep  brows,  behind 
the  house,  and  went  up  on  the  Fells,  which 
were  bleak  and  bare  enough,  and  there  we 
ran  races  in  the  fresh,  sharp  air ;  and  once 
we  came  down  by  a  new  path  that  took  us 
past  the  two  old  gnarled  holly-trees,  which 
grew  about  half-way  down  by  the  east  side  of 
the  house.  But  the  days  grew  shorter  and 
shorter ;  and  the  old  lord,  if  it  was  he,  played 
away  more  and  more  stormily  and  sadly  on 
the  great  organ.  One  Sunday  afternoon, — it 
must  have  been  towards  the  end  of  November 

1 

j 

1 

f 

chariot  Dickcns.j  1'HE  OLD  NURSE’S  STORY.  -  15 

— I  asked  Dorothy  to  take  charge  of  little 
Missey  when, she  came  out  of  the  drawing¬ 
room,  after  Miss  Furnivall  had  had  her  nap  ; 
for  it  was  too  cold  to  take,  her  with  me  to 
church,  and  yet  I  wanted  to  go.  And  Doro¬ 
thy  was  glad  enough  to  promise,  and  was  so 
foud  of  the  child  that  all  seemed  well ;  and 
Bessy  and  I  set  off  very  briskly,  though  the 
sky  hung  heavy  and  black  over  the  white 
earth,  as  if  the  night  had  never  fully  gone 
away ;  aud  the  air,  though  still,  was  very 
biting  and  keen. 

“We  shall  have  a  fall  of  snow,”  said  Bessy 
to  me.  And  sure  enough,  even  while  we  were 
in  church,  it  came  down  thick,  in  great  large 
flakes,  so  thick  it  almost  darkened  the  win¬ 
dows,  It  had  stopped  snowing  before  we 
came  out,  but  it  lay  soft,  thick  and  deep 
beneath  our  feet,  as  we  tramped  home. 
Before  we  got  to  the  hall  the  moon  rose,  and 

I  think  it  was  lighter  then, — what  with  the 
moon,  and  what  with  the  white  dazzling  snow 
— than  it  had  been  when  we  went  to  church, 
between  two  and  thr£e  o’clock,  I  have  not 
told  you  that  Miss  Furnivall  and  Mrs.  Stark 
never  went  to  church  :  they  used  to  read 
the  prayers  together,  in  their  quiet  gloomy 
way ;  they  seemed  to  feel  the  Sunday  very 
long  without  their  tapestry-work  to  be  busy 
at.  So  when  I  went  to  Dorothy  in  the 
kitchen,  to  fetch  Miss  Rosamond  and  take  her 
up-stairs  with  me,  I  did  not  much  wonder 
when  the  old  woman  told  me  that  the  ladies 
had  kept  the  child  with  them,  and  that  she 
had  never  come  to  the  kitchen,  as  I  had 
bidden  her,  when  she  was  tired  of  behaving 
pretty  in  the  drawing-room,'  So  I  took  off 
my  things  and  went  to  find  her,  and  bring 
her  to  her  supper  in  the  nursery.  But  when 

I  went  into  the  best  drawing-room,  there  sat 
the  two  old  ladies,  very  still  and  quiet,  drop¬ 
ping  out  a  word  now  and  then,  but  looking  as 
if  nothing  so  bright  and  merry  as  Miss  Rosa¬ 
mond  had  ever  been  near  them.  Still  I 
thought  she  might  be  hiding  from  me  ;  it 
was  one  of  her  pretty  ways  ;  and  that  she  had 
persuaded  them  to  look  as  if  they  knew 
nothing  about  her  ;  so  I  went  softly  peeping 
under  this  sofa,  and  behind  that  chair, 
making  believe  I  was  sadly  frightened  at  not 
finding  her. 

“What’s  the  matter,  Hester?”  said  Mrs. 
Stark  sharply,  I  don’t  know  if  Miss  Furnivall 
had  seen  me,  for,  as  I  told  you,  she  was  very 
deaf,  and  she  sat  quite  still,  idly  staring  into 
the  fire,  with  her  hopeless  face,  “I’m  only 
looking  for  my  little  Rosy-Posy,”  replied  I, 
still  thinking  that  the  child  was  there,  and 
near  me,  though  I  could  not  see  her, 

“  Miss  Rosamond  is  not  here,”  said  Mrs. 
Stark.  “  She  went  away  more  than  an  hour 
ago  to  find  Dorothy.”  And  she  too  turned 
and  went  on  looking  into  the  fire. 

My  heart  sank  at  this,  and  I  began  to  wish 
I  had  never  left  my  darling.  I  went  back  to 
Dorothy  and  told  her,  James  was  gone  out 
for  the  day,  but  she  and  me  and  Bessy  took 

lights,  and  went  up  iuto  the  nursery  first 
and  then  we  roamed  over  the  great  large 
house,  calling  and  entreating  Miss  Rosamond 
to  come  out.  of  her  hiding  place,  mid  not 
frighten  us  to  death  in  that  way.  But  there 
was  no  answer  ;  no  sound. 

“  Oh  !  ”  said  I  at  last,  “  Can  she  have  got 
into  the  east  wing  and  hidden  there  ?  ” 

But  Dorothy  said  it  was  not  possible,  for 
that  she  herself  had  never  been  in  there  ;  that 
the  doors  were  always  locked,  and  my  lard’s 
steward  had  the  keys,  she  believed  ;  at  any 
rate,  neither  she  nor  James  had  ever  seen 
them :  so,  I  said  I  would  go  back  and  see 
if,  after  all,  she  was  not  hidden  in  the  draw¬ 
ing-room,  unknown  to  the  old  ladies  ;  anti  if 

I  found  her  there,  I  said,  I  would  whip  her 
well  for  the  fright  she  had  given  me  ;  but  I 
never  meant  to  do  it.  Well,  I  went  back  to 
the  west  drawing-room,  and  I  told  Mrs.  Stark 
we  could  not  fiud  her  anywhere,  and  asked 
for  leave  to  look  all  about  the  furniture 
there,  for  I  thought  now,  that  she  might  i 
have  fallen  asleep  in  some  warm  hidden 
corner  ;  but  no  !  we  looked,  Miss  Furnivall 
got  up  and  looked,  trembling  all  over,  and 
she  was  no  where  there  ;  then  we  set  off 
again,  every  one  in  the  house,  and  looked  in 
all  the  places  we  had  searched  before,  but 
we  could  not  find  her.  Miss  Furnivall 
shivered  and  shook  so  much,  that  Mrs,  Stark 
took  her  back  into  the  warm  drawing-room  ; 
but  not  before  they  had  made  me  promise  to 
bring  her  to  them  when  she  was  fouud.  Well- 
a-day !  I  began  to  think  she  never  would  be 
found,  when  I  bethought  me  to  look  out  into  j 
the  great  front  court,  all  covered  with  snow. 

I  was  up-stairs  when  I  looked  out ;  but,  it 
was  such  clear  moonlight,  I  could  see  quite 
plain  two  little  footprints,  which  might  be 
traced  from  the  hall  door,  and  round  the 
corner  of  the  east  wing.  I  don’t  know  how 

I  got  down,  but  I  tugged  open  the  great,  stiff 
hall  door  ;  and,  throwing  the  skirt  of  my  gown 
over  my  head  for  a  cloak,  I  ran  out.  Ix 
turned  the  east  comer,  and  there  a  black 
shadow  fell  on  the  sno\V“ ;  but  when  I  came 
again  into  the  moonlight,  there  were  the 
little  footmarks  going  up — up  to  the  Fells. 

It  was  bitter  cold  ;  so  cold  that  the  air  almost 
took  the  skimoff  my  face  as  I  ran,  but  I  ran 
on,  crying  to  think  how  ray  poor  little  darling 
must  be  perished  and  frightened,  I  was 
within  sight  of  the  holly-trees,  when  I  saw  a 
shepherd  coming  down  the  hill,  bearing  some¬ 
thing  in  his  arms  wrapped  iu  his  maud.  He 
shouted  to  me,  and  asked  me  if  I  had  lost  a 
bairn  ;  and,  when  I  could  not  speak  for  crying, 
he  bore  towards  me,  and  I  saw  my  wee  bairnie 
lying  still,  and  white,  and  stiff,  in  his  arms,  as 
if  she  had  been  dead.  He  told  me  he  had 
been  up  the  Fells  to  gather  in  his  sheep, 
before  the  deep  cold  of  night  came  on,  and 
that  under  the  holly-trees  (black  marks  on 
the  hill-side,  where  no  other  bush  was  for 
miles  around)  he  had  found  my  little  lady— 
my  lamb— my  queen — my  darling — stiff  and 

16  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  conducted  ty 


cold,  in  the  terrible  sleep  which  is  frost- 
begotten.  Oh  I  the  joy,  and  the  tears  of 
having  her  in  my  arms  once  again !  for  I 
would  not  let  him  carry  her ;  but  took  her, 
maud  and  all,  into  my  own  arms,  and  held 
her  near  my  own  warm  neck  and  heart, 
and  felt  the  life  stealing  slowly  back  again 
into  her  little  gentle  limbs.  But  she  was  still 
insensible  when  we  reached  the  hall,  and  I 
had  no  breath  for  speech.  Wq  went  in  by 
the  kitchen  door. 

“  Bring  the  warming-pan,”  said  I ;  and  I 
carried  her  up-stairs  and  began  undressing 
her  by  the  nursery  fire,  which  Bessy  had 
kept  up.  I  called  my  little  lammie  all  the 
sweet  and  .playful  names  I  could  think  of, — 
even  while  my  eyes  were  blinded  by  my 
tears  ;  and  at  last,  oh  !  at  length  she  opened 
her  large  blue  eyes.  Then  I  put  her  into 
her  Avarm  bed,  and  sent  Dorothy  down  to  tell 
,  Miss  Furnivali  that  all  was  well ;  and  I  made 
up  my  mind  to  sit  by  my  darling’s  bedside 
the  live-long  night.  She  fell  away  into  a 
soft  sleep  as  soon  as  her  pretty  head  had 
touched  the  pillow,  and  I  watched  by  her 
till  morning  light ;  when  she  wakened  up 
bright  and  clear — or  so  I  thought  at  first — 
and,  my  dears,  so  I  think  now. 

She  said,  that  she  had  fancied  that  she 
should  like  to  go  to  Dorothy,  for  that  both 
the  old  ladies  were  asleep,  and  it  was  very 
dull  in  the  drawing-room ;  and  that,  as 
she  Avas  going  through  the  west  lobby,  she 
saAv  the  snow  through  the  high  windoAv 
falling — falling — soft  and  steady  ;  but  she 
'  wanted  to  see  it  lying  pretty  and  white  on 
the  ground  ;  so  she  made  her  Avay  into  the 
great  hall  ;  and  then,  going  to  the  window, 
she  saw  it  bright  and  soft  upon  the  drive  ; 
but  while  she  stood  there,  she  saw  a 
little  girl,  not  so  old  as  she  was,  “but  so 
pretty,”  said  my  darling,  “and  this  little 
girl  beckoned  to  me  to  come  out ;  and  oh, 
she  was  so  pretty  and  so  sweet,  I  could  not 
choose  but  go.”  And  then  this  other  little 
girl  had  taken  her  by  -the  hand,  and  side 
by  side  the  two  had  gone  round  the  east 
corner. 

“  Now  you  are  a  naughty  little  girl,  and 
telling  stories,”  said  I.  “  What  would  your 
good  mamma,  that  is  in  heaven,  and  never 
told  a  story  in  her  life,  say  to  her  little 
Rosamond,  if  she  heard  her — and  I  dare  say 
she  does — telling  stories  !  ” 

“Indeed,  Hester,”  sobbed  out  my  child; 

“  I’m  telling  you  true.  Indeed  I  am.” 

“  Don’t  tell  me  !  ”  said  I,  very  stern.  “  I 
tracked  you  by  your  foot-marks  through  the 
snow  ;  there  were  only  yours  to  be  seen  :  and 
if  you 'had  had  a  little  girl  to  go  hand-in- 
hand  with  you  up  the  hill,  don’t  you  think 
the  foot-prints  would  have  gone  along  with 
yours  ?  ” 

“  I  can’t  help  it,  dear,  dear  Hester,”  said  i 
she,  crying,  “  if  they  did  not ;  I  never  looked 
at  her  feet,  but  she  held  my  hand  fast  and 
tight  in  her  little  one,  and  it  was  very,  very  I 


cold.  She  took  me  up  the  Fell-path,  up  to 
the  holly  trees  ;  and  there  I%  saw  a  lady 
weeping  and  crying  ;  but  when 'she  saw  me, 
she  hushed  her  weeping,  and  smiled  very 
proud  and  grand,  and  took  me  on  her  knee, 
and  began  to  lull  me  to  sleep  ;  and  that ’s  all, 
Hester  —  but  that  is  true  ;  and  my  dear 
mamma  knows  it  is,”  said  she,  crying.  So  I 
thought  the  child  was  in  a  fever,  and  pre¬ 
tended  to  believe  her,  as  she  went  over  her 
story — over  and  over  again,  and  always  the 
same.  At  last  Dorothy  knocked  at  the  door 
with  Miss  Rosamond’s  breakfast ;  and  she 
told  me  the  old  ladies  were  down  in  the 
eating-parlour,  and  that  they  wanted  to  speak 
to  me.  They  had  both  been  into  the  night- 
nursery  the  evening  before,  but  it  was  after 
Miss  Rosamond  was  asleep  ;  so  they  had  only 
looked  at  her~not  asked  me  any  questions. 

“  I  shall  catch  it,”  thought  I  to  myself,  as 
I  went  along  the  north  gallery.  “  And  yet,” 
I  thought,  taking  courage,  “it  was  in  their 
charge  I  left  her ;  and  it ’s  they  that ’s  to 
blame  for  letting  her  steal  away  unknown  and 
unwatched.”  So  I  Avent  in  boldly,  and  told  my 
story.  I  told  it  all  to  Miss  Furnivali,  shout¬ 
ing  it  close  to  her  ear  ;  but  when  I  came  to 
the  mention  of  the  other  little  girl  out  in  the 
snow,  coaxing  and  tempting  her  out,  and 
wiling  her  up  to  the  grand  and  beautiful  lady 
by  the  Holly-tree,  she  threw  her  arms  up 
— her  old  and  withered  arms  —  and  cried 
aloud,  “  Oh  !  Heaven,  forgive  !  Have  mercy  !  ” 

Mrs.  Stark  took  hold  of  her ;  roughly 
enough,  I  thought ;  but  she  was  past  Mrs. 
Stark’s  management,  and  spoke  to  me,  in  a 
kind  of  Avild  Avarning  and  authority. 

“  Hester  !  keep  her  from  that  child !  It 
Avill  lure  her  to  her  death  !  That  evil  child  ! 
Tell  her  it  is  a  Avicked,  naughty  child.”  Then, 
Mrs.  Stark  hurried  me  out  of  the  room ; 
where,  indeed,  I  was  glad  enough  to  go  ;  but 
Miss  Furnivali  kept  shrieking  out,  “  Oh !  have 
mercy  !  Wilt  Thou  never  forgive  !  It  is 
many  a  long  year  ago - ” 

I  Avas  very  uneasy  in  my  mind  after  that. 
I  durst  never  leave  Miss  Rosamond,  night  or 
day,  for  fear  lest  she  might  slip  off  again, 
after  some  fancy  or  other  ;  and  all  the  more, 
because  I  thought  I  could  make  out  that 
Miss  Furnivali  was  crazy,  from  their  odd 
ways  about  her  ;  and  I  was  afraid  lest  some¬ 
thing  of  the  same  kind  (which  might  be  in 
the  family,  you  know)  hung  over  my  darling. 
And  the  great  frost  never  ceased  all  this  time  ; 
and,  whenever  it  was  a  more  stormy  night 
than  usual,  between  the  gusts,  and  through 
the  wind,  we  heard  the  old  lord  playing  on 
the  great  organ.  But,  old  lord,  or  not, 
wherever  Miss  Rosamond  went,  there  I 
followed ;  for  my  love  for  her,  pretty  help¬ 
less  orphan,  was  stronger  than  my  fear  for 
the  grand  and  terrible  sound.  Besides,  it 
rested  with  me  to  keep  her  cheerful  and 
merry,  as  beseemed  her  age.  So  we  played 
together,  and  wandered  together,  here  and 
there,  and  everywhere ;  for  I  never  dared 


Charles  Dickens.]  THE  OLD  NURSE’S  STORY.  '  17 

1 

1 

to  lose  sight  of  her  again  in  that  large  and 
rambling  house.  And  so  it  happened,  that 
one  afternoon,  not  long  before  Christmas  day, 
we  were  playing  together  on  the  billiard- 
table  in  the  great  hall  (not  that  we  knew  the 
right  way  of  playing,  but  she  liked  to  roll 
the  smooth  ivory  balls  with  her  pretty  hands, 
and  I  liked  to  do  whatever  she  did)  ;  and, 
by-and-bye,  without  our  noticing  it,  it  grew 
dusk  indoors,  though  it  was  still  light  in  the 
ojpen  air,  and  I  was  thinking  of  taking  her 
back  into  the  nursery,  when,  all  of  a  sadden, 
she  cried  out : 

“  Look,  Hester  !  look  !  there  is  my  poor, 
little  girl  out  in  the  snow  !  ” 

I  turned  towards  the  long  narrow  windows, 
and  there,  sure  enough,  I  saw  a  little  girl,  less 
than  my  Miss  Rosamond— dressed  all  unfit  to 
be  out-of-doors  such  a  bitter  night — crying, 
and  beating  against  the  window-panes,  as  if 
she  wanted  to  be  let  in.  She  seemed  to  sob 
and  wail,  till  Miss  Rosamond  could  bear  it 
no  longer,  and  was  flying  to  the  door  to 
open  it,  when,  all  of  a  sudden,  and  close 
upon  us,  the  great  organ  pealed  out  so  loud 
and  thundering,  it  fairly  made  me  tremble ; 
and  all  the  more,  when  I  remembered  me 
that,  even  in  the  stillness  of  that  dead-cold 
weather,  I  had  heard  no  sound  of  little  batter¬ 
ing  hands  upon  the  window-glass,  although 
the  Phantom  Child  had  seemed  to  put  forth 
all  its  force  ;  and,  although  I  had  seen  it  wail 
and  cry,  no  faintest  touch  of  sound  had  fallen 
upon  my  ears.  Whether  I  remembered  all 
this  at  the  very  moment,  I  do  not  know ;  the 
great  organ  sound  had  So  stunned  me  into 
terror ;  but  this  I  know,  I  caught  up  Miss 
Rosamond  before  she  got  the  hall-door  opened, 
and  clutched  her,  and  carried  her  away,  kick¬ 
ing  and  screaming,  into  the  large  bright 
kitchen,  where  Dorothy  and  Agnes  were  busy 
with  their  mince- pies. 

“  What  is  the  matter  with  my  sweet  one  ?” 
cried  Dorothy,  as  I  bore  in  Miss  Rosamond, 
who  was  sobbing  as  if  her  heart  would  break. 

“  She  won’t  let  me  open  the  door  for  my 
little  girl  to  come  in ;  and  she’ll  die  if  she' is 
out  on  the  Fells  all  night.  Cruel,  naughty 
Hester,”  she  said,  slapping  me  ;  but  she 
might  have  struck  harder,  for  I  had  seen  a 
look  of  ghastly  terror  on  Dorothy’s  face, 
which  made  my  very  blood  run  cold. 

u  Shut  the  back  kitchen  door  fast,  and 
bolt  it  well,”  said  she  to  Agnes.  She  said 
no  more ;  she  gave  me  raisins  and  almonds 
to  quiet  Miss  Rosamond  :  but  she  sobbed 
about  the  little  girl  in  the  snow,  and  would 
not  touch  any  of  the  good  things.  I  was 
thankful  when  she  cried  herself  to  sleep  in 
bed.  Then  I  stole  down  to  the  kitchen, 
and  told  Dorothy  I  had  made  up  my  mind. 
I  would  carry  my  darling  back  to  my  father’s 
house  in  Applethwaite ;  where,  if  we  lived 
humbly ,  we  lived  at  peace.  I  said  I  had 
been  frightened  enough  with  the  old  lord’s 
organ-playing  ;  but  now,  that  I  had  seen  for 
myself  this  little  moaning  child,  all  decked 

out  as  no  child  in  the  neighbourhood  could 
be,  beating  and  battering  to  get  in,  yet  always 
without  any  sound  or  noise — with  the  dark 
wound  on  its  right  shoulder  ;  and  that  Miss 
Rosamond  had  known  it  again  for  the  phantom 
that  had  nearly  lured  her  to  her  death  (which 
Dorothy  knew  was  true)  ;  I  would  stand  it 
no  longer. 

I  saw  Dorothy  change  colour  once  or  twice. 
When  T  had  done,  she  told  me  she  did  not 
think  I  could  take  Miss  Rosamond  with 
nxe,  for  that  she  was  my  lord’s  ward,  and  I 
had  no  right  over  her ;  and  she  asked  me, 
would  I  leave  the  child  that  I  was  so  fond  of, 
just  for  sounds  and  sights  that  could  do  me 
no  harm  ;  and  that  they  had  all  had  to  get  used 
to  in  their  turns  ?  I  was  all  in  a  hot, 
trembling  passion  ;  and  I  said  it  was  very 
well  for  her  to  talk,  that  knew  what  these 
sights  and  noises  betokened,  and  that  had, 
perhaps,  had  something  to  do  with  the 
Spectre-child  while  it  was  alive.  And  I 
taunted  her  so,  that  she  told  me  all  she  knew, 
at  last ;  and  then  I  wished  I  had  never  been 
told,  for  it  only  made  me  more  afraid  than 
ever. 

She  said  she  had  heard  the  tale  front  old 
neighbours,  that  were  alive  when  ahe  was 
first  married  ;  when  folks  used  to  come  to  the 
hall  someiimes^before  it  had  got  such  a  bad 
name  on  the  country  side  :  it  might  not  be 
true,  or  it  might,  what  she  had  been  told. 

The  old  lord  was  Miss  Fumi vall’s  father — 
Miss  Grace,  as  Dorothy  called  her,  for  Miss 
Maude  was  the  elder,  and  Miss  Furnivall  by 
rights.  The  old  lord  was  eaten  up  with  pride. 
Such  a  proud  man  was  never  seen  or  heard 
of ;  and  his  daughters  werew  like  him.  No 
one  was  good  enough  to  wed  them,  although 
they  had  choice  enough  ;  for  they  were  the 
great  beauties  of  their  day,  as  I  had  seen  by 
their  portraits,  where  they  hung  in  the  state 
drawing-room.  But,  as  the  old  saying  is, 

“  Pride  will  have  a  fall ;  ”  and  these  two 
haughty  beauties  fell  in  love  with  the  same 
man,  and  lie  no  better  than  a  foreign  musi¬ 
cian,  whom  their  father  had  down  from 
London  to  play  music  with  him  at  the  Manor 
House.  For,  above  all  things,  next  to  his 
pride,  the  old  lord  loved  music.  He  could 
play  on  nearly  every  instrument  that  ever  was 
heard  of ;  and  it  was  a  strange  thing  it  did 
not  soften  him  ;  but  he  was  a  fierce  dour  old 
man,  and  had  broken  his  poor  wife’s  heart 
with  his  cruelty,  they  said.  He  was  mad 
after  music,  and  would  pay  any  money  for 
it.  So  he  got  this  foreigner  to  come;  who 
made  such  beautiful  music,  that  they  said 
the  very  birds  on  the  trees  stopped  their 
singing  to  listen.  And,  by  degrees,  this 
foreign  gentleman  got  such  a  hold  over  the 
old  lord,  that  nothing  would  serve  him  but 
that  he  must  come  every  year  ;  and  it  was  he 
that  had  the  great  organ  brought  from  Hol¬ 
land  and  built  up  in  the  hall,  where  it  stood 
now.  He  taught  the  old  lord  to  play  on  it ; 
but  many  and  many  a  time,  when  Lord 

18  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  [Conduct  by 


Fur ni vail  was  thinking  of  nothing  but  his 
fine  organ,  and  his  finer  music,  the  dark 
foreigner  was  walking  abroad  in  the  woods 
with  one  of  the  young  ladies  ;  now  Miss 
Maude,  and  then  Miss  Grace. 

Miss  Maude  won  the  day  and  carried  off  the 
prize,  such  as  it  was  ;  and  he  and  she  were 
married,  all  unknown  to  any  one  ;  and  before 
he  made  liis  next  yearly  visit,  she  had  been 
confined  of  a  little  girl  at  a  farm-house  on  the 
Moors,  while  her  father  and  Miss  Grace 
thought  she  was  away  at  Doncaster  Races. 
But  though  she  was  a  wife  and  a  mother,  she 
was  not  a  bit  softened,  but  as  haughty  and  as 
passionate  as  ever  ;  and  perhaps  more  so,  for 
she  was  jealous  of  Miss  Grace,  to  whom  her 
foreign  husband  paid  a  deal  of  court — by  way 
of  blinding  her — as  he  told  his  wife.  But 
Miss  Grace  triumphed  over  Miss  Maude,  and 
Miss  Maude  grew  fiercer  and  fiercer,  both 
with  her  husband  and  with  her  sister  ;  and 
the  former — who  could  easily  shake  off  what 
was  disagreeable,  and  hide  himself  in  foreign 
t  countries — went  away  a  month  before  his  usual 
time  that  summer,  and  half  threatened  that 
he  would  never  come  back  again.  Meanwhile, 
the  little  girl  was  left  at  the  farm-house,  and’ 
her  mother  used  to  have  her  horse  saddled 
and  gallop  wildly  over  the  hills  to  see ,  her 
once  every  week,  at  the  very  least — for  where 
she  loved,  she  loved  ;  and  where  she  hated, 
she  hated.  And  the  old  lord  went  on  playing 
— playing  on  his  organ  ;  and  the  servants 
thought  the  sweet  music  he  made  had  soothed 
down  his  awful  temper,  of  which  (Dorothy 
said)  some  terrible  tales  could  be  told.  He 
grew  infirm  too,  and  had  to  walk  with  a 
crutch  ;  and  his  son — that  was  the  present 
Lord  Furni vall’s  .  father: — was  with  the 
army  in  America,  and.  the  other  son  at 
sea  ;  so  Miss  Maude  had  it  pretty  much  her 
own  way,  and  she  and  Miss  Grace  gre.w 
colder  and  bitterer  to  each  other  every  day ; 
till  at'  last  they  hardly  ever  spoke,  except 
when  the  old  lord  was  by.  The  foreign 
musician  came  again  the  next  summer,  but  it 
was  for  the  last  time  ;  for  they  led  him  such 
a  life  with  their  jealousy  and  their  passions, 
that  he  grew  weary,  and  went  away,  and 
never  was  heard  of  again.  And  Miss  Maude, 
who  had  always  meant  to  have  her  marriage 
acknowledged  when  her  father  should  be 
dead,  was  left  now  a  deserted  wife — whom 
nobody  knew  to  have  been  married — -with  a 
child  that  she  dared  not  own,  although  she 
loved  it  to  distraction  ;  living  with  a  father 
whom  she  feared,  and  a  sister  whom  she 
hated.  When  the  next  summer  passed  over 
and  the  dark  foreigner  never  came,  both  Miss 
Maude  and  Miss  Grace  grew  gloomy  and 
sad ;  they  had  a  haggard  look  about  them, 
though  they  looked  handsome  as  ever.  But  by 
and  by  Miss  Maude  brightened ;  for  her  father 
grew  more  and  more  infirm,  and  more  than 
ever  carried  away  by  his  music  ;  and  she  and 
Miss  Grace  lived  almost  entirely  apart, 
having  separate  rooms,  the  one  on  the  west 


side — Miss  Maude  on  the  east — thoke  very 
rooms  which  were  now  shut  up.  So  she 
thought  she  might  have  her  little  girl  with 
her,  and  no  one  need  ever  know  except  those  j 
who  dared  not  speak  about  it,  and  were  f 
bound  to  believe  that  it  was,  as  she  said,  a 
cottager’s  child  she  had  taken  a  fancy 
to.  All  this,  Dorothy  said,  was  pretty  well 
known  ;  but  what  came  afterwards  no  one 
knew,  except  Miss  Grace,  and  Mrs.  Stark, 
who  was  even  then  her  maid,  and  much  more 
of  a  friend  to  •  her  than  ever  her  sister  had 
been.  -But  the  servants  supposed,  from 
words  that  were  dropped,  that  Miss  Maude 
had  triumphed  over  Miss  Grace,  and  told  her 
that  all  the  time  the  dark  foreigner  had  been  1 
mocking  her  with  pretended  love — he  was 
her  own  husband ;  the  colour  left  Miss 
Grace’s  cheek  and  lips  that  very  day  for  ever, 
mid  she  was  heard  to  say  many  a  time  that 
sooner  or  later  she  would  have  her  revenge  ; 
and  Mrs.  Stark  was  for  ever  spying  about 
the  east  rooms. 

One  fearful  night,  just  after  the  New  Year  j 
had  come  in,  when  the  snow  was  lying  thick  | 
and  deep,  and  the  flakes  were  still  falling— fast 
enough  to  blind  any  one  who  might  be  out 
and  abroad — there  was  a  great  and  violent 
noise  heard,  and  the  old  lord’s  voice  above 
all,  cursing  and  swearing  awfully; — and  the 
cries  of  a  little  child, — and  the  proud  defiance 
of  a  fierce  woman, — and  the  sound  of  a  blow, 
—and  a  dead  stillness, — and  moans  and 
wailings  dying  away  on  the  hill-side  !  Then 
the  old  lord  summoned  ail  his  servants,  and 
told  them,  with  terrible  oaths,  and  words 
more  terrible,  that  his  daughter  had  dis¬ 
graced  herself,  and  that  he  had  turned  her 
out  of  doors, — her,  and  her  child, — and  that 
if  ever  they  gave  her  help, — or  food — or 
shelter, — lie  prayed  that  they  might  never 
enter  Heaven.  And,  all  the  while,  Miss 
Grace  stood  by  him,  fwhitc  and  still  as  any 
stone  ;  and  when  he  had  ended  she  heaved  a 
great  sigh,  as  much  as  to  say  her  work  was 
done,  and  her  end  was  accomplished.  But 
the  old  lord  never  touched  his  organ  again, 
and  died  within  the  year  ;  and  no  wonder  !  ! 

for,  on  the  morrow  of  that  wild  and  fearful 
night,  the  shepherds,  coming  down  the  Fell 
side,  found  Miss  Maude  sitting,  all  crazy  and 
smiling,  under  the  liolly-trees,  nursing  a  dead 
child, — with  a  terrible  mark  on  its  rigth 
shoulder.  “  But  that  was  not  what  killed  it,” 
said  Dorothy ;  “  it  was  the  frost  and  the 
cold, — every  wild  creature  was  in  its  hole, 
and  eveiy  beast  in  its  fold,1 — while  the  child 
and  its  mother  were  turned  out  to  wander 
on  the  Fells  !  And  now  you  know  all  ! 
and  I  wonder  if  you  are  less  frightened 
now?”  i: 

I  was  more  frightened  than  ever ;  but  I  said 
I  was  not.  I  wished  Miss  Rosamond  and  my¬ 
self  well  out  of  that  dreadful  house  for  ever  ; 
but  I  would  not  leave  her,  and  I  dared  not 
take  her  away.  But  oh  !  how  I  watched 
her,  and  guarded  her  !  We  bolted  the  doors, 


Charles  Dickens.]  THE  OLD  NURSE’S  STORY.  19 


and  shut  the  window-shuttei’S  fast,  au  hour 
or  more  before  dark,  rather  than  leave  them 
\  open  five  minutes  too  late.  But  my  little 
[  lady  still  heal'd  the  weird  child  crying  and 
moiirning  ;  and  not  all  we  could  do  or  say, 
could  keep  her  from  wanting  to  go  to  her, 
and  let  her  iu  from  the  cruel  wind  and  the 
snow.,t  All  this  time,  I  kept  away  from  Miss 
Furnivall  and  Mrs.  Stark,  as  much  as  ever 
I  could  ;  for  I  feared  them — I  knew  no  good 
could  be  about  them,  with  their  grey  hard 
f  faces,  and  their  dreamy  eyes,  looking  back 
into  the  ghastly  years  that  ,  were  gone.  But, 
even  in  my  fear,  I  had  a  kind  of  pity — for 
Miss  Furnivall,  at  least.  Those  gone  down 
to  the  pit  can  hardly  have  a  more  hopeless 
look  than  that  which  was  6ver  on  her  face.  At 
last  I  even  got  so  sorry  for  her— who  never 
said  a  word  but  what  was  quite  forced  from 
her — that  I  prayed  for  her  ;  and  I  taught 
i\  Miss  Rosamond  to  pray  for  one  who  had  done 
a  deadly  sin ;  but  often  when  she  came  to 
those  words,  she  would  listen,  and  start  up 
from  her  knees,  aud  say,  “  I  hear  my  little 
girl  plaiuing  and  cryiug  very  sad — Oh  I  let 
her  in,  or  she  will  die  !  ” 

One  night — just  afteivNew  Year’s  Day  had 
come  at  last,  aud  the  long  winter  had  taken  a 
turn  as  \  hoped — I  heard  the  west  drawing- 
room  bell  ring  three  times,  which  was  the 
signal  for  me.  I  would  ’  not  leave  Miss 
Rosamond  alone,  for  all  she  was  asleep — for 
the  old  lord  had  been  ,  playing  wilder  than 
ever — and  I  -  feared  lest  my  darling  should 
waken  to  hear  the  spectre  child  ;  see  her- 1 
knewj  she  could  not,  I  had  r  fastened  the 
windows  too  well  for  that.  So,  I  took  lier  out 
of  her  bed  and  wrapped  her  up  in  such  -  outer 
clothes  as  were  most  handy,  and  carried  her 
down  to  the  drawing-room,  where  the  old 
!  *  ladies,  sat  at  their  tapestry,  work  as  usual. 

They  looked  up  when  I  came  in,  and  Mrs. 
Stark  asked,  quite  astounded,  “  Why  did  I 
bring  Miss  Rosamond  there,  out  of  her  warn 
bed  ?  ”  I  had  begun  to  whisper,  <e  Because  I 
,  was  afraid  of  her  being  tempted  out  while 
I  was  away,  by  the  wild  child  iu  the  suow,” 
when  she  stopped  me  short  (with  a  glance  at 
Miss  Furnivall)  and  said  Miss  Furnivall 
i  wanted  me  to  undo  some  work'  she  had  done 
wrong,  and  which  neither  of  them  could  see 
to  unpick.  So,  I  laid  my  pretty  dear  on  the 
sofa,  and  sat  down  on  a  stool  by  them,  and 
hardened  my  heart  agaiust  them  as  I  heard 
the  wind  rising  and  howling. 

.Miss  Rosamond  slept  on  sound,  for  all  the 
wind  blew  so  ;  and  Miss  Furnivall  said  never 
!  a  word,  nor  looked  round  when  the  gusts 
shook  the  windows.  All  at  6nce  she  started 
up  to  her  full  height,  and  put  up  one  hand  as 
if  to  bid  us  listen.  ju 

**  “  I  hear  voices  1  ”  said  she.  “  I  hear  terrible 
screams— I  hear  my  father’s  voice  !  ” 

Just  at  that  moment,  my  darling  wakened 
with  a  sudden  start :  “  My  little  girl  is 
crying,  oh,  how  she  is  crying  !  ”  and  she 
tried  to  get  up  and  go  to  lierr  but  she  got  her 


feet  entangled  in  the  blanket,  and  I  caught 
her  up  ;  for  my  flesh  had  begun  to  creep  at 
these  noises,  which  they  heard  while  we 
could  catch  no  sound.  In  a  minute  or  two 
the  noises  came,  and  gathered  fast,  and  filled 
our  ears  ;  we,  too,  heard  voices  and  screams, 
and  no  longer  heard  the  winter’s  wind  that 
raged  abroad.  Mrs.  Stark  looked  at  me,  and 
I  at  her,  but  we  dared  not  speak.  Suddenly 
Miss  Furnivall  went  towards  the  door,  out 
into  the  ante-room,  through  the  west  lobb}r, 
and  opened  the  door  into  the  great  hall.  Mrs. 
Stark  followed,  and  I  durst  not  be  left, 
though  my  heart  almost  stopped  beating  for 
fear.  I  wrapped  my  darling  tight  in  my 
arms,  and  went  out  with  them.  In  the  hall 
the  screams  were  louder  than  ever  ;  they 
sounded  to  come  from  the  east  wing — nearer 
and  nearer-^close  on  the f  other  side  of  the 
locked-up  doors — close  behind  them.  Then  I 
noticed  that  the  great  brouze  chandelier  seemed 
all  alight,  though  the  hall  was  dim,  and  that 
a  fire  was  blazing  in  the  vast  hearth-place, 
though  it  gave  no  heat  ;  and  I  shuddered  up 
with  terror,  aud  folded  my  darling  closer  to 
me.  But  as  I  did  so,  the  east  door  shook,  and 
she,  suddenly  struggling  to  get  free  from  me, 
cried,  “  Hester  !  I  must  go  !  My  little  girl  is 
there  ;  I  hear  her  ;  she  is  coming  !  Hester, 
I  must  go  !  ” 

I  held  her  tight  with  all  my  strength  ; 
with  a  set  will,  I  held  her.  If  I  had  died,  my 
hands  would  have  grasped  lier  still ;  I  was  so 
resolved  in  my  miud.  Miss  Furnivall  stood 
listeuing,  aud  paid  no  regard  to  my  darling, 
who  had  got  down  to  the  ground,  and  whom 
I,  upou  my  knees  now,  was  holding  with  both 
my  arms  clasped  round  her  neck  ;  she  still 
striving  and  crying  to  get  free. 

All  at  once,  the  east  door  gave  way  with  a 
thundering  crash,  as  if  torn  opeu  in  a  violent 
passion,  and  there  came  into  that  broad  and 
mysterious  light,  the  figure  of  a  tall  old  man, 
with  grey  hair  and  gleaming  eyes.  He  drove 
before  him,  with  many  a  relentless  gesture  of 
abhorrence,  a  stem  and  beautifuL  woman, 
with  a  little  child  clingiug  to  her  dress. 

“  Oh  Hester  !  Hester  !  ”  cried  Miss  Rosa¬ 
mond.  u  It ’s  the  lady  !  the  lady  below  the 
holly-trees  ;  and  my  little  girl  is  with  her. 
Hester  !  Hester  !  let  me  go  to  her  ;  they  are 
drawing  me  to  them.  I  *  feci  them— I  feel 
them.  I  must  go  !  ” 

/Again  she  was  almost  convulsed  by  her 
efforts  to  get  away  ;  but  I  held  her 
tighter  and  tighter,  till  I  feared  I  should 
do  her  a  hurt ;  but  rather  that  than  let 
her  <  go  towards  those  'terrible  phantoms. 
They  passed  along  towards  the  great  hall- 
door,  where  the  winds  howled  and  ravened 
for  their  prey  ;  but  before  they  reached  that, 
the  lady  turned  ;  aud  I  could  see  that  she 
defied  the  old  man  with  a  fierce  and  proud 
defiance  ;  but  then  she  quailed — and  then  she 
threw  up  her  arms  wildly  and  piteously  to 
save  her  child — her  little  child — from  a  blow 
from  his  uplifted  crutch. 


20  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  [Conducted!* 


And  Miss  Rosamond  was  torn  as  by  a 
power  stronger  than  mine,  and  writhed  in  my 
arms,  and  sobbed  (for  by  this  time  the  poor 
darling  was  growing  faint). 

“  They  want  me  to  go  with  them  on  to  the 
Fells — they  are  drawing  me  to  them.  Oh„my 
little  girl !  I  would  come,  but  cruel,  wicked 
Hester  holds  me  very  tight.”  But  when 
she  saw  the  uplifted  crutch  she  swooned 
away,  and  I  thanked  God  for  it.  Just  at  this 
moment — when  the  tall  old  man,  his  hair 
streaming  as  in  the  blast  of  a  furnace,  was 
going  to  strike  the  little  shrinking  child — 
Miss  Furnivall,  the  old  woman  by  my  side, 
cried  out,"  “Oh;  father  !  father !  spare  the  little 
innocent  child  !  ”  But  just  then  I  saw — we 
all  saw— another  phantom  shape  itself,  and 
grow  clear  out  of  the  blue  and  misty  light 
that  filled  the  hall ;  we  had  not  seen  her  till 
now,  for  it  was  another  lady  who  stood  by 
the  old  man,  with  a  look  of  relentless  hate 
and  triumphant  scorn.  That  figure  was 
very  beautiful  to  look  upon,  with  a  soft 
white  hat  drawn  down  over  the  proud  brows, 
and  a  red  and  curling  lip.  It  was  dressed  in 
an  open  robe  of  blue  satin.  I  had  seen  that 
figure  before.  It  was  the  likeness  of  Miss 
Furnivall  in  her  youth ;  and  the  terrible 
phantoms  moved  on,  regardless  of  old  Miss 
Furnivall’s  wild  entreaty, — and  the  uplifted 
crutch  fell  on  the  right  shoulder  of  the  little 
child,  and  the  younger  sister  looked  on,  stony 
and  deadly  serene.  But  at  that  moment,  the 
dim  lights,  and  the  fire  that  gave  no  heat, 
went  out  of  themselves,  and  Miss  Furnivall 
lay  at  our  feet  stricken  down  by  the  palsy 
— death-stricken. 

Yes  !  she  was  carried  to  her  bed  that  night 
never  to  rise  again.  She  lay  with  her  face  to 
the  wall,  muttering  low  but  muttering  alway : 
“  Alas !  alas  !  what  is  done  in  youth  can  never 
be  undone  in  age  !  What  is  done  in  youth 
can  never  be  undone  in  age  !  ” 


THE  HOST’S  STORY. 


Oxce  on  a  time  (as  children’s  stories  say), 

A  merchant  came  from  countries  far  away 
Back  to  his  native  land,  bearing,  conceal’d 
In  a  small  casket,  diamonds  that  would  yield 
A  sum  sufficient  to  redeem  a  lung 
Taken  by  force  in  perilous  combating.  ' 

This  merchant  in  his  trade  had  now  grown  old ; 

And  all  the  chambers  of  his  heart  were  cold, 

And  the  pale  ashes  of  the  fires  of  youth 
Lay  on  his  soul,  which  knew  not  joy  nor  ruth  : 

But,  at  a  bargain  he  was  sharp  and  hard, 

For  cent,  per  cent,  alone  he  had  regard. 

To  swell  his  profits,  or  some  mite  to  save, 

He  would  have  seen  his  children  in  their  grave, 

If  children  he  had  had  ;  but,  like  a  stone, 

He  seem’d  all  self-complete,  and  bloodless,  and  alone. 
The  love  of  money  burnt  in  bim  like  thirst : 

His  soul  gaped  for  it,  as,  when  earth  is  curs’d 
With  drouth,  it  gapes  for  water;  and  whene’er 
He  saw  a  merclmut  with  an  equal  share, 

He  long’d  to  seize  on  all,  by  force  or  stealth, 

Adding  still  more  to  his  preposterous  wealth, 


Behold  him,  now,  upon  the  salt  sea  strand ! 

Once  more  he  treads  upon  his  native  land. 

He  knows  the  cliffs  along  the  tawny  beach  ; 

He  knows,  far  off,  the  winding  river-reach  : 

He  sees  familiar  sights — he  hears  familiar  speech. 
He  stops.  Perhaps  from  off  his  arid  brain 
The  years  have  roll’d,  and  he  is  young  again  : 
Perhaps,  with  an  emotion  strange  aud  new, 

The  sense  of  home  is  on  his  heart  like  dew. — 

Alas  !  not  so.  His  only  present  sense 
Is  how  to  lodge  to-night  without  expense. 

He  wander’d  up  into  the  little  town  ; 

And  there  by  chance  he  heard  of  the  renown 
Of  a  great  merchant-prince,  who  lived  hard  by 
In  royal  pomp  and  liberality. 

With  these  words  carv’d  above  the  open  door : — 

“  Welcome  to  all  men  !  Welcome,  rich  and  poor  !  ” 
Thither  that  miser  gladly  turn’d  his  face, 

And  soon  beheld,  within  a  pleasant  place 
Beset  with  leaves  that  talk’d  across  the  breeze, 

White  gleams  of  marble  qnivering  through  dark  trees ; 
And,  going  nearer,  saw  rich  walls  arise, 

With  many  windows,  sparkling  forth  like  eyes, 

And  sculptured  figures,  gazing  from  a  height, 

Like  travelling  angels  pausing  in  their  flight, 

Aud  colonnades  in  far-withdrawing  rows; 

And  golden  lamps  in  shadowy  porticoes, 

And  terrace-walks  upon  the  level  roof, 

Safe  from  intrusion,  quiet,  and  aloof: — 

Such  was  the  palace  which  this  merchant  found. 

From  out  the  gates  there  came  a  restless  sound 
Of  instruments  of  music ;  on  light  wings 
Seeming  to  poise,  and  murmur  of  far  tilings 
In  some  divine  and  unknown  tongue  to  all.* 

The  sordid  merchant  pass’d  into  the  hall, 

And  saw  the  master  sitting  at  the  board, 

And  cried  aloud:  “  Oh,  fair  and  princely  lord  ! 
Behold  a  rain’d  merchant  at  thy  feet, 

Who  of  thy  bounty  craves  a  little  meat, 

Lest  Hunger  fang  him  in  the  open  ways. 

Unto  tliy  grace  and  charity  he  prays, 

And  bends  liim  low.” — The  host  rose  np,  and  took 
The  merchant  by  the  hand,  with  genial  look, 

And  welcomed  him  with  smiles  and  hearty  speech, 
And,  with  his  own  hand,  meat  and  drink  did  reach. 
And  fed  him  nobly.  But  the  miser’s  eye 
Regarded  all  things  avariciously  ; 

And  soon  the  splendours  of  that  snn-bright  house, — 
Prodigal  wealth,  and  riches  marvellous, 

The  lucid  gold,  outshining  everywhere, 

The  jewels,  making  star-rays  through  the  air. — 
Kindled  a  sudden  hell-flame  in  his  heart, 

Bating  his  breath,  making  his  blood  to  start, 

And  whisper’d  in  bis  brain  a  Devilish  thing  : 

Even  this  :  “  When  all  the  house  is  slumbering, 

And  eyes  and  ears,  with  fumes  of  feasting  drenched, 
Are  sealed  in  sleep  and  every  sense  is  quenched, 

I  will  arise  and  seize  on  what  I  may, 

And  place  it  safely  in  the  court  till  day ; 

And,  that  I  may  escape  with  all  entire, 

This  princely  house  will  I  consume  with  fire, 

And  bum  the  phoenix  in  his  spicy  nest.” 

The  feast  being  done,  all  rose  to  seek  their  rest; 
And  that  old  traitor,  with  his  lips  of  fraud, 

Said  to  the  host :  “  Sweet  sir!  a  spirit  flawed 
Has,  by  the  oil  and  honey  of  your  love, 

Been  rendered  whole ;  and  He  who  reigns  above 
Will,  I  doubt  not,  increase  your  righteous  store — 
Perhaps  this  very  qight  will  crowd  still  more 


Charles  Dickenij  THE  GEANDFATHEE’8  STOEYr  -  21 


Into  your  chests.  Look  not  incredulously  : 

Heaven  works  in  darkness  and  in  sleep ;  and  I 
Feel  that  my  tongue  has  spoken  prophecy.1 " 

The  host  made  answer  in  a  courteous  tone  ; 

And  now  the  guests  into  their  rooms  are  shown, 

And  mirth  and  light  have  vanished  from  the  hall, 
And  sleep  lies  heavy  on  the  souls  of  all — 

All  but  that  murderous  thief,  who  sits  and  stares 
Into  the  lamp’s  broad  flame,  that  idly  flares, 

Shaking  the  shadows  like  a  ghostly  hand. 

He  thinks  upon  the  scheme  which  he  has  plann’d : 
He  listens  to  the  stillness  round  about: 

He  hears  the  stirring  of  the  wind  without. 

The  chirphig  of  the  crickets  far  beneath, 

The  sighing  sedge  upon  the  neighbouring  heath. 

He  takes  his  lamp,  and  stealthily  he  goes  ; 

The  silent  house  seems  conscious  in  repose  : 

Along  the  stairs  the  shadows  shift  and  glide  ; 

They  cling  like  shrouded  devils  at  his  side  : 

The  marble  columns,  in  their  spectral  white, 

Come  heavily  through  the  glooms  to  meet  the  light: 
A  dreary  quiet  lies  upon  the  place. 

That  living  Avarice,  with  his  crafty  face, 

Enters  the  hall,  deserted  now  and  cold, 

And  fills  a  bag  with  jewels  and  with  gold, 

And  takes  whatever  pleases  him  the  best ; 

Then  places  his  own  diamonds  with  the  rest, 

And  in  the  court-yard  stows  all  privily. 

Now,  wake,  ye  sleepers  ;  for  there’s  Murder  nigh  ! 
A  devil  is  in  the  house  who,  while  you  sleep, 

About  the  basement  noiselessly  doth  creep, 

And  makes  a  fire  with  faggots  and  with  straw  ; 

And  soon  the  flames  will  gather  strength,  and  flaw 
Those  solid  stones,  and  wrap  them  like  a  cloak, 

And  glare  and  lighten  through  their  night  of  smoke  ! 
Even  now  the  terror  hath  advanced  its  head : 

The  infant  mischief  carefully  is  fed  : 

A  scorching  tongue  hath  fastened  ou  the  walls— 
Farewell  the  joy  !  Farewell  the  festivals  ! 

Up,  through  the  beams,  the  sharp  flames  gnaw  and 
break, 

Out  at  the  window  peering  like  a  snake ; 

The  massive  pillars  fiercely  are  embraced ; 

The  leaden  conduits  slowly  melt  and  waste ; 

|  Forth  leaps  the  nimble  fire,  and  hastily 
Its  bloody  writing  scores  upon  the  sky  ! 

Forth  leap  the  flames  ;  forth  rush  the  sparks  o’erhead  ; 
Forth  rolls  the  smoke,  and  burns  to  heavy  red  ; 
Forth  bursts  the  steady  glare, — and  all  the  night 
has  fled  \ 

A  sense  of  fire  has  gone  throughout  the  house. 

The  host,  the  guests,  and  all  the  servants,  rouse  ; 
And  from  their  rooms  tumultuously  they  pour, 

A  wild  and  stumbling  crowd,  and  through  the  door 
Pass  into  the  court-yard.  They  look  around,  t 
And  see  their  dwelling  as  with  serpents  wound, 

And  weep,  and  wring  their  hands,  and  cry  (i  Alas  1  ” 

Meanwhile,  the  spoiler,  seeking  to  amass 
More  treasure  still,  goes  groping  here  aud  there 
In  empty  chambers,  and  all  places  where 
The  fire  has  not  yet  reached  ;  until  at  last 
He  hears  the  house  awake,  and  knows  his  chance  is 
past. 

He  cries  aloud, £<  I  am  undone — undone  !  ” 

And  towards  the  threshold  he  attempts  to  run, 

And  meets  the  vengeful  fire  upon  the  way, 

And  glares  against  its  glare,  aud  stands  at  bay. 

It  is  the  master  now,  and  he  the  slave ! 

He  flies  before  it ;  his  lips  moan  and  rave  ; 


He  runs  about;  he  traces  to  and  fro  ; 

He  calls  for  help ;  he  knows  not  where  to  go ; 

He  gnashes  like  a  wild  beast  in  a  cage. 

The  cruel  flames  come  roariug  in  their  rage, 

And  scorch  his  robe.  He  howls, 41 1  cannot  flee ! 
The  fire  which  I  have  kindled,  eatetli  Me  !  ”  v 

The  pavements  glow  ;  the  hot  air  sings  and  flares.; 
For  very  life  he  dashes  up  the  stairs, 

And  runs  toward  a  window  at  the  back, 

And  far  away  beholds  the  cloudy  rack 
Weltering  like  blood.  One  chance  alone  lie  sees  : 
He  leaps  straight  out  and  falls  between  the  trees. 
Half-stunn’d,  and  bruis’d,  he  rises  yet  again, 

Making  strange  sounds,  and  cursing  in  his  pain. 

He  reels  and  stumbles,  yet  still  holds  his  flight, 

Aud  fades  .away  into  the  distant  night. 

The  noise  and  clamour  have  at  length  awoke 
The  neighbours  round,  who  see  the  glare  and  smoke, 
And  rise,  and  cast  up  water  bn  the  flames  ; 

And  soon  the  fierce  destruction  shrinks  and  tames. 
Back  goes  the  scarlet  light  from  far  and  nigh  ; 

Back  comes  the  natural  darkness  to  the  sky. 

The  empty  windows,  with  their  inward  red, 

Glow  like  strange  eyes  within  a  dusky  head, 

And  gleam,  and  glance,  and  lingeringly  die  out. 
Then,  with  a  joyful  cry,  the  hasty  rout 
Enter  the  house,  and  find  the  larger  part 
Whole,  and  unhurt ;  and  each  man  in  his  heart 
Rejoices,  and  makes  merry  at  the  sight. 

And  now  the  master  of  that  palace  bright 
Looks  round,  and  finds  his  household  all  are  there, 
Safe  from  the  fire,  uninjured  in  a  hair, 

Except  that  aged  merchant :  only  he 
Is  absent;  and  no  traces  can  they  see, 

Although  they  search  the  empty  rooms  and  all 
The  smoking  ruins  huddled  ’gainst  the  wall. 

They  think — “  He  did  not  wake  in  time  to  fly ;  ” 
Till  in  a  heap  of  charr’d  wood  they  descry 
His  lamp,  and  see  that  there  the  fire  began, 

And  say  among  themselves — “  This  was  the  man 
Who  lit  the  flames  that  might  have  been  our  death!  ” 
And  at  that  instant,  in  the  self-same  breath, 

Some  others  in  the  open  court-yard  find 
The  plunder  which  the  wretch  had  left  behind; 

And  lo!  the  store  is  wondrously  increas’d 
By  a  small  box  of  diamonds  of  the  East, 

In  value  greater  than  a  prince’s  crown. 

A  proclamation  was  sent  up  and  down 
The  neighbouring  land,  to  see  if  any  claim 
Were  made  upon  these  gems;  but  no  one  came. 

The  true  possessor  durst  not  reappear, 

To  make  his  title  to  the  jewels  clear* 

And  so,  in  time,  they  rightfully  belong’d 
To  him  who  had  so  grievously  been  wrong’d 
By  the  first  owi\er  :  and  their  worth  was  higher, 

A  thousand  fold,  than  what  was  burnt  by  fiie. 

Thus  joy  was  bom  out  of  calamity ; 

And  that  old  merchant,  when  he  meant  to  lie, 

In  very  truth  had  spoken  prophecy. 


THE  GEANDFATHEE’S  STOEY. 

When  I  first  took  my  seat  as  a  clerk  in  our 
Bank,  the  state  of  the  country  was  far  less 
safe  than  it  is  now.  The  roads  were  not  only 
unconscious  of  Macadam,  and  fatal  in  many 
places  to  wheels  and  springs,  but  dangerous 
to  a  still  more  alarming  degree  from  the  out¬ 
rages  and  robberies  to  which  travellers  were 


I 

j)  22  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  [Conducted by 


exposed.  Men’s  minds  were  unsettled  by  the 
incidents  of  the  war  on  which  we  had  just 
entei'ed  ;  commerce  was  interrupted,  credit 
was  at  au  end,  and  distress  began  to  be  dis¬ 
covered  among  whole  classes  of  the  population 
who  had  hitherto  lived  in  comfort.  However 
harshly  the  law  was  administered,  it  seemed 
to  have  no  terrors  for  the  evil-doer,  and,  in¬ 
deed,  the  undisceming  cruelty  of  the  Statute 
book  defeated  its  own  object  by  punishing  all 
crimes  alike.  But,  a  time  of  pecuniary  pres¬ 
sure  is  not  a  bad  season  for  a  bank.  The 
house  flourished,  though  the  country  was  in 
great  straits  ;  and  the  enormous  profits  at  that 
time  realised  by  bankers — which  enabled 
them  to  purchase  large  estates  and  outshiue 
the  old  territorial  aristocracy — made  the  pro¬ 
fession  as  unpopular  among  the  higher 
classes  as  it  had  already  become  among  the 
unreasoning  masses.  By  them,  a  banker  was 
looked  upon  as  a  sort  of  licensed  forger,  who 
created  enormous  sums  of  money  by  merely 
signing  square  pieces  of  flimsy  paper  ;  and  I 
!  am  persuaded  the  robbery  of  a  bank  would 
1  have  been  considered  by  many  people  quite  as 
meritorious  an  action  as  the  dispersal  of  a  band 
of  coiners.  These,  however,  were  not  the  sen¬ 
timents  of  us  bankers’  clerks.  We  felt  that 
we  belonged  to  a  mighty  corporation,  on 
whose  good  will  depended  the  prosperity  of 
■  half  the  farms  in  the  county.  We  considered 
ourselves  the  executive  government,  and 
carried  on  the  business  of  the  office  with  a 
pride  and  dignity  that  would  have  fitted  us 
for  Secretaries  of  State.  We  used  even  to 
walk  the  streets  with  a  bi’aggadocio  air,  as  if 
our  pockets  were  loaded  with  gold  ;  and  if 
two  of  us  hired  a  gig  for  a  country  excursion, 
we  pretended  to  look  under  the  driving-seat 
as  if  to  see  to  the  safety  of  inconceivable 
amounts  of  money:  ostentatiously  examining 
our  pistols,  to  show  that  we  were  determined  to 
defend  our  treasure  or  die.  Not  seldom  these 
precautions  were  required  in  reality  ;  for, 
when  a  pressure  for  gold  occurred  among  our 
,  customers,  two  of  the  most  courageous  of  the 
!  clerks  were  despatched  with  the  required 
amount,  in  strong  leathern  bags  deposited 
under  the  seat  of  the  gig,  which  bags  they 
were  to  guard  at  the  risk  of  their  lives. 
Whether  from  the  bodily  strength  I  was  gifted 
with,  or  from  some  idea  that  as  I  was  not 
given  to  boasting,  I  might  really  possess  the 
necessary  amount  of  boldness,  I  do  not  know, 
but  I  was  often  selected  as  one  of  the  guards 
to  a  valuable  cargo  of  this  description  ; 
and  as  if  to  show  an  impartiality  be¬ 
tween  the  most  silent  and  the  most  talkative 
of  their  servants,  the  partners  united  with 
me  in  this  service  the  most  blustering, boastful, 
good-hearted  and  loud-voiced  young  gentle¬ 
man  I  have  ever  known.  You  have  most  of 
you  heard  of  the  famous  electioneering  orator 
Tom  Ruddle — who  stood  at  every  vacancy 
for  county  and  borough,  and  passed  his  whole 
life  between  the  elections,  in  canvassing  for 
himself  or  friends.  Tom  Ruddle  was  my 


fellow  clerk  at  the  time  I  speak  of,  and  gene¬ 
rally  the  companion  of  my  drives  in  charge  of 
treasure. 

“  What  would  you  do,”  1  said  to  Tom,  “  in 
case  we  are  attacked  ?  ” 

“  Tell  ye  what !  ”  said  Tom,  with  whom  that 
was  a  favourite  way  of  beginning  almost 
every  sentence,  “  Tell  ye  what !  I’ll  shoot  ’em 
through  the  head.” 

“  Then  you  expect  there  will  be  more  than 
one  ?  ” 

“  I  should  think  so,”  said  Tom  ;  “  if  there 
was  only  one,  I’d  jump  out  of  the  gig  and 
give  him  a  precious  licking.  Tell  ye  what  ! 
T  would  be  a  proper  punishment  for  his  im¬ 
pertinence.” 

“  And  if  half  a  dozen  should  try  it  ?  ”  * 

“  Shoot  ’em  all !  ” 

Never  was  there  such  a  determined  cus¬ 
todier  as  the  gallant  Tom  Ruddle. 

One  cold  December  evening  we  were 
suddenly  sent  off,  in  charge  of  three  bags  of 
coin,  to  be  delivered  into  customers’  hands 
within  ten  or  twelve  miles  of  the  town.'  The 
clear  frosty  sky  was  exhilarating,  our  courage 
was  excited  by  the  speed  of  the  motion,  the 
dignity  of  our  responsible  office,  and  a  pair  of 
horse-pistols  which  lay  across  the  apron. 

“  Tell  ye  what  !  ”  said  Tom,  taking  up  one 
of  the  pistols  and  (as  I  afterwards  found) 
full-cocking  it,  u  I  should  rather  like  to  meet 
a  few  robbers.  I  would  serve  them  as  I  did 
those  three  disbanded  soldiers.”  y 

“  How  was  that  ?  ” 

“  Oh  !  it ’s  as  well,”  said  Tom,  pretending 
to  grow  very  serious,  “  to  say  nothing  about 
these  unfortunate  accidents.  Blood  is  a 
frightful  thiug  on  the  conscience,  and  a  bullet 
through  a  fellow’s  head  is  a  disagreeable  sight ; 
but — tell  ye  what ! — I’d  do  it  again.  Fellows 
who  risk  their  lives  must  take  them  chance, 
my  boy.” 

And  here  Tom  put  the  other  pistol  on 
full  cock,  and  looked  audaciously  on  both 
sides  of  the  road,  as  if  daring  the  lurking 
murderers  to  come  forth  and  receive  the 
reward  of  their  crimes.  As  to  the  story  of 
the  soldiers,  and  the  fearful  insinuations  of  a 
bloody  deed  executed  on  one  or  all,  it  was  a 
prodigious  rhodomontade — for  Tom  was  such 
a  tender-hearted  individual,  that  if  he  had 
shot  a  kitten  it  would  have  made  him  un¬ 
happy  for  a  week.  But,  to  hear  him  talk, 
you  would  have  taken  him  for  a  civic  Richard 
the  Third,  one  who  had  “  neither  pity,  love, 
nor  fear.”  His  whiskers  also  were  very  fero¬ 
cious,  and  suggestive  of  battle,  murder,  and 
ruin.  So,  he  went  on  playing  with  his 
pistol,  and  giving  himself  out  for  an  unpity¬ 
ing  executioner  of  vengeance  on  the  guilty, 
until  we  reached  the  small  town  where  one  of 
our  customers  resided,  and  it  was  necessary 
for  one  of  us  to  carry  one  of  the  bags  to  its 
destination.  Tom  undertook  this  task.  As 
the  village  at  which  the  remaining  parcels 
were  to  be  delivered  was  only  a  mile  further 
on,  he  determined  to  walk  across  the  fields, 


Charles  Dickens.]  *  THE  GRANDFATHER’S  STORY.  23 


and  join  me  after  he  had  executed  his  com¬ 
mission.  He  looked  carefully  at  the  priming 
of  his  pistol,  stuck  it  ostentatiously  in  the  out¬ 
side  breast-pocket  of  his  great-coat ;  and,  with 
stately  steps,  marched  off  with  the  lieavy 
money-bag  in  his  hahd.  *  I  put'  the  whip  to 
the  horse,  -  and  trotted  merrily  forward, 
thinking  nothing  whatever  of  robbery  or 
clanger,  in  spite  of  the  monitory  conversation 
of  Tom  Ruddle. 

Our  first  customer  resided  at  the  outskirts 
of  the  village — a  farmer  who  required  a  con¬ 
siderable  amount  in  gold;  I  pulled  up  at  the 
narrow  dark  entrance  of  the  lane  that  led  up 
to  his  house  ;  and,  as  my  absence  couldn’t  be 
for  more  than  a  few  minutes,  I  left  the  gig, 
and  proceeded  up  the  lane  with  my  golden 
treasure.  I  delivered  it  into  the  hands  of  its 
owner  ;  and,  manfully  resisting  all  his  hospi¬ 
table  invitations,  I  took  my  leave,  and  walked 
rapidly  towards  the  gig.  As  I  drew  near,  I 
perceived  in  the  clear  starlight  a  man  mounted 
on  the  step,  and  groping  under  the  seat.  ;  I 
ran  forward,  and  the  man,  alarmed  by  my 
approach,  rapidly  raised  himself  from  his 
stooping  position,  and,  presenting  a  pistol, 
fired  it  so  close  to  my  eyes  that  the  flash  blinded 
me  for  a  moment ;  the  action  was  so  sudden 
and  my  surprise  so  great,  that  for  a  short  time 
too  I  was  bewildered,  and  scarcely  knew 
whether  I  was  alive  or  dead. 

The  old  horse  never  started  at  the  report,  and 
I  rested  my  hand  on  the  rim  of  the  wheel, 
while  I  endeavoured  to  recover  my  scattered 
thoughts.  The  first  thing  I  ascertained  was 
that  the  man  had  disappeared.  I  then  hur¬ 
riedly  examined  under  the  seat ;  and,  to  my 
intense  relief,  perceived  the  remaining  money¬ 
bag  still. in  its  place.  There  was  a  slit  in  it, 
however, near  the  top,  as  if  made  by  a  knife — 
the  robber  probably  resolving  merely  to  pos¬ 
sess  himself  of  the  coin,  without  the  dangerous 
accompaniment  of  the  leathern  sack,  by  which 
he  might  have  been  traced. 

“  Tell  ye  what !  ”  said  a  voice  close  beside 
me,  as  I  concluded  my  scrutiny  ;  “  I  don’t  like 
practical  jokes  like  that — firing  off  pistols  to 
frighten  -  folks.  You’ll  alarm  the  whole 
village;”  T  >  ‘ 

“  Tom,”  I  said,  “now’s  the  .time  to  show 
your  courage.  A  man  has  robbed  the  gig — or 
tried  to  do  it — and  has  fired  at  me  within  a 
yard  of  my  face.” 

Tom  grew  perceptibly  pale  at  this  infor¬ 
mation.  “  W; as  there  only  one  i  ” 

“  Only  one.” 

“  Then  the  accomplices  are  near.  What’s 
to  be  done  ?  Shall  we  rouse  farmer  Malins 
and  get  his  men  to  help  ?  ”  J  x 

“N  ot  for  the  world,”  I  said,  “I  would  rather 
face  a  dozen  shots  than  have  my  carelessness 
known  at  the  Bank.  It  would  ruin  me  for 
life.  Let  us  count  the  money  in  this  bag, 
quietly  deliver  it  if  it  be  correct,  and  then 
follow  the  robber’s  course.” 

It  was  only  a  hundred  guinea  bag,  that 
one/  but  the  counting  was  nervous  work. 


We  found  three  guineas  wanting.  We  were 
luckily  able  to  supply  them  from  our  own 
pockets  (having  just  received  our  quarter’s 
salaries),  and  I  left  Tom  there,  delivered  the  • 
bag  at  its  destination  very  near  at  hand, 
without  a  word  of  the  robbery,  and  went 
back  to  him.  .  _ 

“  Now  I  Which  way  did  he  go  ?  ”  said  Tom, 
resuming  a  little  of  his  former  air,  and 
clutching  his  pistol  like  the  chief  of  a  chorus 
of  banditti  in  a  melodrama. 

1 1  told  him  I  had  been  so  confused  that  I 
had  not  observed  which  way  he  had  retreated. 
Tom  was  an  old  hand  at  poaching — though  he 
was  a  clergyman’s  son,  and  ought  to  have 
set  a  better  example. 

“  I  have  heard  a  hare  stir  at  a  hundred 
yards,”  he  said,  and  laid  his  ear  close  to  the 
frosty  ground.  “  If  he ’s  within  a  quarter  of 
a  mile,  I  shall  hear  him  move.”  I  lay  also 
down  on  the  ground.  There  was  silence 
for  a  long  time.  We  heard  nothing  but  our 
breathing  and  the  breathing  of  the  horse. 

“  Hush  !  ”  said  Tom  at  last.  “  He  has 
come  out  of  hiding.  I  hear  a  man’s  step  far 
away  to  the  left  ;  bring  your  pistol,  and  let 
us  follow.”  I  took  the  pistol  and  found  the 
flint  down  on  the  pan.  The  man  had  fired 
at  me  with  my  own  weapon,  and  no  wonder 
he  had  fired  so  suddenly ;  for  Torn  now  ac¬ 
knowledged  to  his  belief  that  he  had  forgotten 
to  uncock  it. 

“Never  mind,”  said  Tom,  “I’ll  blow 
his  brains  out  with  mine,  and  you  can  split 
his  skull  with  the  butt  end  of  yours.  Tell 
ye  what !  It ’s  of  no  use  to  spare  those 
malefactors.  I’ll  fire,*  the  moment  I  see 
him.” 

“  Not  till  I  tell  you  whether  it  is  the  robber 
or  not.” 

“  Should  you  know  him,  do  you  think  ?  ” 

,  In  the  flash  of  the  powder  I  saw  a  pair 
of  haggard  and  amazed  eyes  which  I  shall 
never  forget.” 

“  On,  then !  ”  said  Tom ;  “we  ’ll  have  a  three 
hundred  pound  reward,  and  see  the  rascal  , 
hanged  besides.”  j 

r  We  set  off,  slowly  and  noiselessly,  in  the 
direction  Tom  had  pointed  out.  Occasionally 
he  applied  his  ear  to  the  ground,  and  always 
muttering  “We  have  him  !  we  have  him  !” 
proceeded  in  the  same  careful  manner  as 
before.  Suddenly  Tom  said,  “  He ’s  doubling. 
He  has  been  leading  us  on  the  wixrng  scent 
all  this  time ;  he  has  turned  towards  the 
village.”  1  ' 

“  Then  our  plan,”  I  said,  “  should  be  to  get 
there  before  him.  j  If  we  intercept  him  in 
that  way,  he  can’t  escape  ;  and  I  feel  sure  I 
could  identify  him  if  I  saw  him  by  candle¬ 
light.” 

“  Tell  ye  what ! — that ’s  the  plan,”  replied 
my  companion.  “  We  ’ll  watch  at  the  entrance 
of  the  village,  and  arrest  him  the  moment  he 
comes  m.  v  -  w 

We  crept  through  an  opening  of  the  hedge, 
and  got  once  more  in  the  straight  lane  that 


24  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE. 


led  to  the  village.  It  was  now  very  late, 
and  the  cold  was  so  intense  that  it  kept  every 
person  witliin-doors  ;  for,  we  heard  no  sound 
in  the  whole  hamlet,  except,  high  up  in  the 
clear  air,  the  ticking  of  the  church  clock,  and 
the  loud  jangle  of  the  quarters  that  seemed 
like  peals  of  artillery  in  the  excited  state  of 
our  minds  and  senses.  Close  to  the  church — 
which  appeared  to  guard  the  entrance  of  the 
village,  with  its  low  buttressed  walls,  and  its 
watch-tower  of  a  steeple — there  was  a  wretched 
ruined-looking  cottage,  which  projected  so 
far  into  the  lane  that  the  space  between  it 
and  the  church, was  not  more  than  eight  or 
nine  feet.  It  struck  us  both  at  the  same 
moment  that  if  we  could  effect  a  lodgment 
here,  it  was  impossible  for  the  man  to  slip 
into  the  village  without  our  observation. 

After  listening  for  a  while  at  the  windows 
and  doors  of  the  building,  we  concluded  it 
was  uninhabited  ;  gently  pushing  open  the 
door,  we  climbed  a  narrow  stone  stair-case, 
and  were  making  for  a  gable  end  window 
which  we  had  observed  from  the  road,  and 
which  commanded  the  whole  approach  to 
the  village,  when  we  heard  a  voice  say  in  a 
whisper,  as  we  attained  the  garret  we  were 
in  search  of,  “Is  that  you,  William  ?  ”  . 

We  stopped  for  a  minute  or  two  and  the 
speaker’s  expectation  was  disappointed.  We 
now  placed  ourselves  at  the  window,  and 
listened  for  the  slightest  sound.  We  remained 
there,  listening,  for  a  long  time.  Several 
quarters  had  died  off  into  “  the  eternal 
melodies/’  far  up  in  the  church  tower,  and 
we  were  just  beginning  to  despair  of  seeing 
the  object  of  our  search,  when  Tom  nudged 
me  noiselessly  with  his  elbow. 

“Tell  ye  what  1  ”  he  whispered  very  softly, 
“  there ’s  a  footstep  round  the  comer.  See  ! 
There’s  a  man  under  the  hedge  looking 
up  at  the  next  window.  There-*— : he  moves  ! 
We  must  be  after  him.  Hallo  !  Stop — he 
crosses  the  lane.  He ’s  coming  into  this  very 
house  !  ”  1  L  r 

I  certainly  did  see  a  figure  silently  steal 
across  the  road  and  disappear  under  the  door¬ 
way  of  the  building  we  were  in.  But,  we  had 
no  light ;  and  we  knew  nothing  of  the  ar¬ 
rangement  of  the  rooms.  Another  quarter 
thrown"  off  from  the  old  church  clock,  warned 
us  that  the  night  was  rapidly  passing  away. 
We  had  almost  resolved  to  retrace  our  steps 
if  possible,  and  get  back  to  where  we  had 
left  our  unfortunate  horse,  when  I  was  again 
nudged  by  my  friend’s  elbow. 

“  Tell  ye  what !  ”  he  whispered.  “  Some¬ 
thing  ’s  going  on ;”  and  he  pointed  to  a  feeble 
glimmer  on  the  rafters  of  the  roof  above  us. 

The  light  proceeded  from  the  next  room, 
which  had  not  been  built  up  above  the  height 
of  the  ceiling  joists,  so  that  the  roof  was 
common  to  both  chambers — the  adjoining  one, 
and  that  in  which  we  were — the  partition- 
wall  being  only  seven  or  eight  feet  high.  We 
could  have  heard  anything  that  was  said, 
but  we  listened  in  vain  for  the  slightest 


[Conducted  by 


sound.  The  light,  however,  continued  to 
burn  ;  we  saw  it  flickering  across  the  top  of 
the  habitation,  and  dimly  playing  far  up 
among  the  dark  thatch  of  the  roof. 

“Tell  ye  what  !  ”  said  Tom.  “  If  we  could 
get  up,  on  these  old  joists,  we  could  see  into 
the  next  room.  Hold  my  pistol  till  I  get  up 
and— tell  ye  what ! — then  I  can  shoot  ’em 
easy.” 

“For  Heaven’s  sake,  Tom!”  I  said,  “be 
careful.  Let  me  see  whether  it  is  the  man.” 

“  Come  up,  then/’  said  Tom,  who  now  be¬ 
strode  one  of  the  main  beams  and  gave  me 
a  hand  to  aid  my  ascent.  We  were  both  on 
the  level  of  the  dividing  wall,  and,  by  placing 
our  heads  a  little  forward,  could  see  eveiy 
portion  of  the  neighbouring  room.  A  miser¬ 
able  room  it  was.  There  was  a  small  round 
table,  there  were  a  couple  of  old  chairs  ;  but 
utter  wretchedness  was  the  characteristic  of 
the  cheerless  and  fireless  apartment. 

There  was  a  person,  apparently  regardless 
of  the  cold,  seated  at  the  table  and  reading 
a  book.  The  little  taper  which  had  been 
lighted  without  any  noise,  was  only  sufficient 
to  throw  its  illumination  on  the  features  and 
figure  of  the  reader,  and  on  the  table  at  j 
wnich  she  sat.  They  were  wasted  and  pallid 
features — but  she  was  young,  and  very  pretty ; 
or  the  mystery  and  strangeness  of  the  incident 
threw  such  an  interest  around  her,  that  I 
thought  so.  Her  dress  was  very  -  scanty, 
and  a  shawl,  wrapped  closely  round  her 
shoulders,  perhaps  displayed,  rather  than 
concealed  the  deficiency  of  her  clothing  in 
other  respects.  ►  Suddenly  we  saw  at  the 
farther  end  of  the  room  a  figure  emerge 
from  the  darkness  ;  Tom  grasped  his  pistol 
more  firmly,  and  put  the  cock  back,  pre¬ 
venting  it  from  making  any  noise  with  his 
thumb.  The  man  stood  in  the  doorway,  as  if 
uncertain  whether  to  enter  or  not.  He  looked 
for  a  long  time  at  the  woman,  who  still  con¬ 
tinued  her  reading  ;  and  then  sifently  ad¬ 
vanced.  She  heard  his  step,  and  lifted  up  her 
head,  and  looked  in  his  face  without  saying  a 
word.  Such  a  face,  so  pale,  so  agitated,  I 
never  in  my  life  saw. 

“We  shall  go  to-morrow,”  he  said;  “I  | 
have  got  some  money  as  I  expected.”  And 
with  these  words  he  laid  three  golden  guineas 
on  the  table  before  her.  Still,  she  said  nothing 
— but  watched  his  countenance  with  her  lips 
apart.  ’  •  ,*v'1 

“  Tell  ye  what !  ”  said  Tom  ;  “  That ’s  the 
money.  Is  that  the  man  ?  ” 

•  “  I  don’t  know  yet,  till  I  see  his  eyes.”  In 
the  meantime,  the  conversation  went  on 
below. 

“I  borrowed  these  pieces  from  a  friend,” 
continued  the  man,  as  if  in  answer  to  the 
look  she  bent  on  him  ;  “  a  friend,  I  tell  you. 

I  might  have  had  more,  but  I  would  take 
only  three.  They  are  enough  to  carry  us 
to  Liverpool,  and,  once  there,  we  are  sure 
of  a  passage  to  the  West.  Once  in  the 
West,  the  world  is  before  us.  I  can  work, 


Ch&rlei  Dickens.] 


THE  CHARWOMAN’S  STORY. 


25 


Mary.  We  are  young — a  poor  man  has  no 
ehaiice  here,  but  we  can  go  to  America  with 
fresh  hopes - ” 

“  And  a  good  conscience  ?  ”  said  the  woman, 
in  a  whisper  lik^  Lady  Macbeth’s. 

The  man  was  silent.  At  last  lie  seemed  to 
grow  angry  at  the  steadiness  of  her  gaze. 
“Why  do  you  look  at  me  in  that  manner J 
I  tell  you  we  shall  start  to-morrow.” 

“  And  the  money  ?  ”  said  the  woman. 

“  I  will  send  it  back  to  my  friend  from 
whom  I  borrowed  it,  out  of  my  first  earnings. 
I  took  only  three,  incase  it  should  incommode 
him  to  lend  me  more.” 

“I  must  see  that  friend  myself,”  said  Mary, 
“  before  I  touch  the  money.”  + 

“Tell  ye  what!  Is  it  the  man?”,  again 
asked  Tom.  *'  ,/ 

“  Hush  !  ”  I  said  ;  “  let  us  listen.” 

“  I  recognised  a  friend  of  mine’  in  one  of 
the  clerks  in  the  Melfield  Bank.  I  give  you 
my  word  I  got  the  coins  from  him.” 

Tell  ye  what !  He  confesses,”  said-Tom  ; 
“  let  us  spring  on  him  by  surprise — an  ugly 
ruffian  as  ever  I  saw  !  ” 

“  And  with  that  sum,”  lie  continued,  “  see 
what,  we  can  do.  It  will  relieve  us  from  our 
distress,  which  has  come  upon  us — Mary,  you 
know  I  speak  the  truth  in  this — from  no  other 
fault  of  mine  than  too  much  confidence  in  a 
treacherous  friend,  I  can’t  see  you  starve. 
I  can’t  see  the  baby  reduced  from  our  com¬ 
fortable  keeping  to  lie  on  straw  at  the  end 
of  a  barn  like  this.  I  can’t  do  it — I  won’t !  ” 
he  went  on,  getting  more  impassioned  in  his 
words.  “At  whatever  cost,  I  will  give  you 
a  chance  of  comfort  and  independence.” 

“  And  peace  of  mind  1  ”  replied  Mary.  “  Oh, 
William,  I  must  tell  you  what  terrible  fears 
have  been  in  my  heart,  all  this  dreary  night, 
during  your  absence;  I  have  read,  and  prayed, 
and  turned  for  comfort  to  Heaven.  Oh, 
William,  give  the  money  back  to  your  friend 
— I  say  nothing  about  the  loan — take  it  back ; 
I  can’t  look  at  it !  Let  us  starve— let  us 
die,  if  it  must  be  so — but  take  that  money 
away.”  .m.  *.• , 

:  Torn  Ruddle  gently  put  down  the  cock  of 
his  pistol,  and  ran  the  sleeve  of  his  coat 
across  his  eyes.  r*  L[  i  h  7/  '•  .  j  i 

“  Let  Us  trust,  William,”  the  woman  went 
on,  “and  deliverance  will  be  found.  The 
weather  is  very  cold,”  she  added:  “There 
seems  no  visible  hope ;  but  I  cannot  altogether 
despair  at  this  time  of  the  year.  f  This  barn 
is  not  more  humble  than  the  manger  at  Beth¬ 
lehem,  which  I  have  been  reading  about  all 
night.” 

At  this  moment,  a  great  clang  of  bells 
pealed  from  the  old  church  tower;  it  was 
so  near  that  it  shook  the  rafters  on  which 
we  sat,  and  filled  all  the  room  with  the  sharp 
lunging  sound.  “  Hark !  ”  cried  the  man, 
startled,  “What’s  that?” — “It  is  Christmas 
morning,”  said  the  woman.  “  Ah,  William, 
William,  what  a  different  spirit  we  should 
welcome  it  with ;  in  what  a  different  spirit 


we  have  welcomed  it,  many  and  many  a 
happy  time  !” 

He  listened  for  a  moment  or  two  to  the 
bells.  Then  he  sank  on  his  knees,  and  put 
his  head  on  her  lap  ;  and  there  was  perfect 
’silence  except  the  Christmas  music.  “Tell 
ye  what  !  ”  said  Tom.  “  I  remember  we 
always  sang  a  hymn  at  this  hour,  in  my 
father’s  house.  Let  us  be  off — I  wouldn’t 
disturb  these  people  for  a,  thousand  guineas.” 

Some  little  noise  was  made  by  our  prepa¬ 
rations  to  descend.  The  man  looked  up, 
while  the  woman  still;  continued  absorbed  in 
prayer.  "  My  head  was  just  on  the  level  of 
the  wall.  Our  eyes  met.  They  were  the 
same  that  had  flashed  so  wildly  when  the 
pistol  was  fired  from  the  gig.  We  continued 
our  descent.  The  man  rose  quietly  from  his 
knees,  and  put  his  finger  to  liis  lip.  When 
\vq  got  down  stairs  he  was  waiting  for  us  at 
the\dQor.  “Not  before  her”  he  said.  “I 
would  spare  her  the  sight,  if  I  could.  I  am 
guilty  of .  the  robbery,  but  I  wouldn’t  have 
harmed  you,  sir.  The  pistol  went  off,  the 
moment  I  put  my  hand  upon  it.  For  God’s 
sake  tell  her  of  it  gently,  when  you  have 
taken  me  away  !  ” 

“  Tell  ye  what  !  ”  said  Tom  Ruddle — whose' 
belligerent  feelings  had  entirely  disappeared — 
“the  pistol  was  my  mistake,  and  it’s  all  a 
mistake  together.  Come  to  my  friend  and 
me,  at  the  Bank,  the  day  after  to-morrow, 
and — tell  ye  what ! — the  sharp  wind  brings 
water  to  my  eyes— we’ll  manage  to  lend  you 
some  more.”  \  T  *  .  . 

So,  the  bells  still  rang  clear  in  the  midnight 
air ;  and  our  drive  home  through  the  frosty 
lanes  was  the  pleasantest  drive  we  ever  had  in 
our  lives. 


THE  CHARWOMAN’S  STORY. 

^  ^ r_rT  r. 

A  person  is  flustered  by  being  liad  up  into 

the  dining-room  for  to  drink  merry  Christ¬ 
mases  and  them  (though  wishing,  I  am  sure, 
to  every  partjf  present  as  many  as  would  be 
agreeable  to  their  own  selves),  and  it  an’t  easy 
rightly  to  remember  at  a  moment’s  notice 
what  a  person  'did  see  in  the  ghostly  way. 
Indeed  I  never  seen ,  nothing  myself,  it  being 
Thomas  which  did  so — and  he  heard  it. 
Hows’ever,  ^tlie  account  of  it  having  been 
seemingly  canned  to  the  young  ladies  by  Nurse, 
and  they  wishing  to  know  >  it  all  correct,  it 
were  as  I  will  now  mention. 

I  was  cook  to  Alderman  Playford  when  he 
died  so  suddenly  ;  and  vei'y  handsome 
mouniing  we  servants  had,  though  I ’m  only 
a  hard-working  charwoman  now. 

The  Alderman  kept  up  two  establishments ; 
his  town-house  at  Dewcester,  for  the  sake  of 
the  business,  and  his  country-house  at  Brown- 
ham,  five  or  six  miles  off*.  I  was  at  Brown- 
ham,  and  I  liked' that  the  best  because  the 
young  ladies. liked  it  best;  they  were  real 
ladies,  they  were.  We.  had  everything  com¬ 
fortable  there ;  I  may  say  grand :  gardens, 


26  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  [Conduct  by 

there  was,  and  fish-ponds,  a  brewery,  and  a 
dairy,  besides  stables  and  that.  Latterly  too, 
the  Alderman  spent  most  of  his  time  there. 
Thomas,  the  coachman,  used  to drive  him 
backwards  and  forwards  when  he  had  to  go 
to  Dewcester ;  where  he  sometimes  slept,  if 
there  was  anything  particular  going  on  in  the 
Aldermen’s  Boom,  or  if  there  was  a  Ward 
Election  coming  on  ;  for  the  Alderman,  you 
know,  was  a  great  electioneerer.  But  Thomas 
always  came  home  to  us  :  when  the  Alderman 
slept  at  Dewcester,  he  returned  to  Brownham 
for  the  sake  of  protection  to  us  females,  and 
to  attend  to  the  things. 

Now  the  Alderman  had  had  a  paralytic 
stroke  some  years  before  ;  and,  ever  since 
then,  though  he  got  quite  over  it,  he  had  a 
very  curious  step,  and  one  of  his  shoes  made 
a  queer  creaking  noise,  not  like  any  other 
noise  as  ever  I  heard.  As  he  used  to  be 
coming  down  the  front  gravel  walk,  or  going 
from  one  pari  of  the  nouse  to  another  — 
it  was  a  large,  old-fashioned,  red  brick  house, 
it  was — his  shoe  went  “  Creak  !  creak  !  ” 
so  that  you  could  tell  exactly  where  he 
was  without  seeing  him.  He  didn’t  walk 
heavy,  and  he  didn’t  walk  quick  ;  and,  long 
before  he  came  in  sight,  you  knew  he  was 
a  coming  by  the  noise  of  his  creaking  shoe, 
though  you  couldn’t  hardly  hear  the  sound 
of  his  footsteps  I  We  heard  many  and  many 
a  creaking  shoe,  but  I  never  hear  one  creak 
like  that. 

Thomas  and  me  was  very  good  friends.  I 
thought  he ’d  meant  more  by  it  than  he  did, 
though  I  don’t  believe,  even  now,  that  ’twas 
all  cupboard  love,  though  certainly  some  of  it 
was.  Who  can  tell  what  might  have  hap¬ 
pened,  if  he  hadn’t  married  the  Widow 
Bogers,  that  everybody  said  was  left  so  well, 
when  she  wasn’t  ?  Poor  Thomas  !  The  day 
after  his  wedding  was  a  sad  day  for  him  ;  he 
having  gone  ana  done  it,  past  looking  back. 
But  we  was  always  good  friends  at  Brownham, 
as  fellow-servants  ought  to  be.  I  was  mistress 
in  the  kitchen  ;  and  he  didn’t  fare  the  worse 
for  that. 

One  evening  he ’d  come  back  from  driving  the 
Alderman  to  Dewcester,  and  he  was  to  go  and 
fetch  him  in  the  afternoon  next  day.  The  night 
was  wet  and  muggy,  with  a  gusty  wind.  As 
we  sat  in  the  kitchen,  we  could  hear  the  rain 
beat  against  the  outside  shutters,  and  the 
water  pour  from  the  spouts  on  the  roof.  The 
wind  puffed  and  bjew,  like  a  man  in  a  passion, 
as  if  it  were  whirling  round  and.  round  the 
house,  to  try  and  find  a  place  to  get  in  at. 
Thomas  had  taken  off  his  wet  leggings  and 
things,  and  put  on  his  in-door  ones,  and  we 
all  sat  chatting  round  the  kitchen  fire  a  little 
later  than  usual.  We  heard  the  young  ladies 
go  up  stairs  to  bed,  and  then  the  other  maids 
went  up  to  bed  too,  leaving  Thomas  and  me  a 
little  while  to  ourselves. 

So  we  went  on  talking  and  talking  about 
the  family,  and  about  the  neighbours,  and  I 
\  thought  that,  perhaps,  Thomas  would  say 

something  about  his  feelings  ;  but  he  was  just 
as  usual.  When  the  kitchen  clock  pointed  to 
a  quarter  to  twelve,  I  took  up  my  candle,  and 
says,  u  Good  night,  Thomas,  I’m  going  to 
bed.” — “  Good  night,  cook,”  says  he  ;  “  I’ll 
clear  away  the  ladies’  supper-things  out 
of.  the  dining-room,  and  then  I  ’ll  go  to  bed, 
too,  for  I’m  tired,”  says  he. 

I  hadn’t  been  up-stairs  more  than  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  and  hadn’t  finished  undressing, 
before  I  heard  some  one  tapping  at  my  door. 

“  Who ’s  that  ?  ”  says  I,  in  a  fright. — 

“  That’s  me,  cook,”  says  Thomas,  “  I  want  to 
speak  to  you.” — I  couldn’t  think  what  he 
wanted  to  say ;  he ’d  had  plenty  of  time  to 
say  anything  particular,  but  I  little  thought 
lie ’d  seen  the  Widow  Bogers  that  very  after¬ 
noon.  So  I  dressed  myself,  and  came  out  ! 
into  the  passage,  and  there  stood  Thomas 
looking  more  serious  than  I ’d  ever  seeri  him 
at  church.  “  Come  down  stairs,  cook,”  says 
he,  “  I  ’ve  something  to  tell  you  ;  ”  so  solemn-  i 
like  that  I. couldn’t  think  what  could  be  the  j 
matter. 

We  went  into  the  kitchen.  T  made  up  the 
fire  a  little,  and  sat  down  by  it.  Thomas  took 
a  seat  on  the  other  side.  He  behaved  just  as 
if  he’d  been  at  a  funeral.  “Cook,”  says  he, 

“  I ’m  sure  you  ’ll  hear  of  something  soon.” — 

“  Lor,  Thomas,”  says  I,  “  what  should  I  hear 
of?” — “Why,”  says  he,  “you’ll  find  the 
Alderman  is  dead.” — “  Dead  !  ”  says  I,  “  that’s 
very  shocking  !  ” 

“  It  isn’t  half  so  shocking  as  what  1  have  just 
heard.  Cook,”  says  he,  in  a  hollow  tone  of 
voice,  “  Cook,  I  have  just  heal'd  the  Alder¬ 
man’s  ghost,  and  I’m  sure  we  shall  never  see 
him  any  more  alive  !  When  I  went  to  clear 
away  the  ladies’  supper-things  in  the  dining¬ 
room,  I  found  a  glass  full  of  punch  standing  in 
the  middle  of  the  tray.  You  know  that’s  the 
way  they  often  do,  when  I  come  home  wet  after 
driving  the  Alderman  ” — (for  they  were  real 
ladies :  it  would  have  been  too  familiar-like 
to  say,  Thomas,  here’s  a  glass  of  punch  for 
you) — “  and  I  was  just  going  to  drink  it  off 
to  the  Alderman’s  health,  when  I  heard  the 
hall-door  open,  and  creak  !  creak !  creak ! 
came  the  sound  of  his  footsteps  across  the 
hall.  I  did  not  at  the  moment  think  it 
strange  he  should  come  back  to  Brownham  so 
late,  and  so  I  sets  down  the  punch,  and  takes 
up  a  candle,  and  runs  out  of  the  room,  to  show 
him  a  light.  I  could  gee  nothing  at  all ;  but 
master’s  footsteps  passed  me,  and  went  creak ! 
creak  !  creak  !  up  the  stairs.  I  followed  them 
to  the  first  landing-place,  but  still  I  could  see 
no  Alderman,  nor  nothing.  I  cries  out  ‘Good 
God,  sir,  where  are  you  ?  Don’t  do  this  1  ’  I 
stopped  and  listened ;  not  a  sound  but  the 
creak  !  creak  !  creak  !  The  footsteps  went 
up  to  his  room-door  ;  I  heard  the  door  open 
and  shut,  and  then  I  heard  nothing  more. 
But,  cook,  the  doors  are  all  barred  and  locked 
for  the  night,  and  how  could  the  Alderman' 
get  into  the  house  ?  As  sure  as  you’re  alive, 

I’ve  heard  his  ghost !  ” 

Charles  Uiokeni.l 


THE  DEAF  PLAYMATE’S  STOEY. 


I  thought  so  too,  at  the  time,  and  now  I 
know  it.  We  sat  up  all  night  to  be  ready 
for  the  news  when  it  came  from  Dewcester. 
Early  next  morning  a  messenger  arrived. 
Thomas  let  him  in  ;  and  before  he  told  us 
what  had  brought  him  to  Brownham,  Thomas 
said  to  him,  a  Alderman  Playford  is  dead.” 
The  messenger  was  astonished,  as  well  he 
might  be,  aim  said  “  Lor,  how  could  you  know 
that  ?  ” — “  He  died  last  night,”  said  Thomas, 
“  as  the  clock  was  striking  twelve,  and  I  heard 
his  footstep  cross  the  hall,  and  go  up  the  stair¬ 
case.  The  Alderman’s  step  is  like  nobody 
else’s,  and  I  knew  by  that  he  must  be 
dead.” 

And  wishing  we  may  all  live  happy  ever 
afterwards  ! 


THE  DEAF.  PLAYMATE’S  STOBY. 

I  don’t  know  how  you  have  all  managed, 
or  wliat  you  have  been  telling.  I  have  been 
thinking  all  this  time,  what  I  could  tell  that 
was  interesting  ;  and  I  don’t  know  anything 
veiy  particular  that  has  happened  to  me, 
except  all  about  Charley  Felkin,  and  why  he 
has  asked  me  to  go  and  stay  there.  I  will 
tell  you  that  story,  if  you  like. 

You  know  Charley  is  a  year  younger  than 
I  am,  and  I  had  been  at  Dr.  Owen’s  a  year 
when  he  came.  He  was  to  be  in  my  room ; 
and  he  did  not  know  anything  about  school ; 
and  he  was  younger,  and  uncomfortable  at 
first ;  and  altogether,  he  fell  to  my  share ; 
and  so  we  saw  a  great  deal  of.  each  other. 
He  soon  cheered  up,  and  could  stand  his 
ground ;  and  we  were  great  friends.  He 
soon  got  to  like  play,  and  left  off  moping ; 
and  we  used  to  talk  a  great  deal  in  wet 
weather,  and  out  on  long  walks.  Our  best 
talks,  though,  were  after  we  were  gone  to 
bed.  I  was  not  deaf  then  ;  and  we  used  to 
have  such  talks  about  home,  and  ghosts,  and 
all  sorts  of  thiugs ;  and  nobody  ever  over¬ 
heard  us  that  we  know  ofJ  but  once  ;  and  then 
we  got  nothing  worse  than  a  tremendous  rap 
at  the  door,  and  the  Doctor  bidding  us  go  to 
sleep  directly. 

Well ;  we  went  on,  just  so,  for  a  good  while, 
till  I  began  to  have  the  ear-ache.  At  first, 
Charley  was  very  kind  to  me.  I  remember 
his  asking  me,  once,  to  lean  my  head  on  his 
shoulder,  and  his  keeping  my  head  warm  till 
the  pain  got  better  ;  and  he  sat  quite  still  the 
whole  time.  But  perhaps  he  got  tired  ;  or 
— I  don’t  know — perhaps  I  grew  cross.  I 
used  to  try  not ;  but  sometimes  the  pain  was 
so  bad,  and  lasted  so  long,  that  I  used  to 
wish  I  was  dead ;  and  I  dare  say  I  might  be 
cross  enough  then,  or  dismal,  which  boys 
like  worse.  Charley  used  to  seem  not  to 
believe  there  was  anything  the  matter  with 
me.  I  used  to  climb  up  the  apple-tree,  and 
get  on  the  wall,  and  pretend  to  be  asleep,  to 
get  out  of  their  way  ;  and  then  the  boys  used 
to  come  running  that  way,  and  say,  “  Iiumpty 
Dumpty  sat  on  the  wall and  one  day  when 


2' 


I  heard  Charley  say  it,  I  said  “  Oh,  Charley  !  ” 
and  he  said,  “  W ell,  why  do  you  go  dumping 
there  ?  ”  and  he  pretended  that  I  made  a 
great  fuss  about  nothing.  I  know  he  did  not 
really  think  so,  but  wanted  to  get  rid  of 
it  all.  I  know  it,  because  he  was  so  kind 
always,  and  so  merry  when  I  got  well  again, 
and  went  to  play  with  the  rest.  And  then,  I 
was  pleased,  and  thought  I  must  have  been 
cross,  to  have  thought  the  things  I  had  ;  and 
so  we  never  explained.  If  we  had,  it  might 
have  saved  a  great  deal  that  happened  after¬ 
wards.  I  am  sure  I  wish  we  had. 

When  Charley  came,  he  was  a  good  deal 
behind  me — being  a  year  younger,  and  never 
having  been  to  school.  I  used  to  think  I 
could  keep  a-head  of  all  but  three  boys  in 
my  class  ;  and  I  used  to  try,  hard,  to  kee* 
a-head  of  them.  But,  after  a  time,  I  began 
to  go  down.  I  used  to  learn  my  lessons  as 
hard  as  ever ;  still,  somehow  the  boys  were 
quicker  in  answering,  and  half-a-dozcn  of 
them  used  to  get  my  place,  before  I  knew 
what  it  was  all  about.  Dr.  Owen  saw  me, 
one  day,  near  the  bottom  of  the  class ;  and 
he  said  he  never  saw  me  there  before ;  and 
the  usher  said  I  was  stupid  ;  and  the  Doctor 
said,  then  I  must  be  idle.  And  the  boys  said 
so  too,  and  gave  me  nicknames  about  it ;  I  even 
thought  so  myself,  too,  and  I  was  very  miser¬ 
able.  Charley  got  into  our  class  before  I  got 
out  of  it  ;  and  indeed  I  never  did  get  out  Ch¬ 
it.  I  believe  his  father  and  mother  used  to 
hold  me  up  to  him — for  he  might  easily 
speak  well  of  me  while  he  was  fond  of  me. 
At  least,  he  seemed  bent  upon  getting  above 
me  in  class.  I  did  try  hard  against  that  ;  and 
he  saw  it,  and  tried  his  utmost,  I  could  not 
like  him  much  then.  I  dare  say  I  was  veiy 
ill-tempered,  and  that  put  him  out. '  After  I 
had  tried  till  I  was  sick,  to  learn  my  lesson 
perfect,  and  then  to  answer  questions,  Charley 
would  get  the  better  of  me ;  and  then  lie 
would  triumph  over  me.  I  did  not  like  to 
fight  him,  because  he  could  not  have  stood  up 
against  me  :  and  besides,  it  was  all  true — he 
did  beat  me  at  lessons.  So  we  psed  to  go  to 
bed  without  speaking.  We  had  quite  left 
off  telling  stories  at  night,  some  time  before. 
One  morning,  Charley  said,  when  we  got  up, 
that  I  was  the  most  sulky  fellow  he  ever  saw. 
I  had  been  afraid,  lately,  that  I  was  growing 
rather  sulky,  but  I  did  not  know  of  any 
particular  reason  that  he  had  for  saying  so 
just  then  (though  he  had  a  reason,  as  I  found 
out  afterwards).  So,  I  told  him  whar  1 
thought — that  he  had  grown  very  unkind, 
and  that  I  would  not  bear  with  it  if  he  did 
not  behave  as  he  used  to  do.  He  said  that 
whenever  he  tried  to  do  so,  I  sulked.  I  did 
not  know,  then,  what  reason  he  had  to  say 
that,  nor  what  this  -was  all  about.  The  thing 
was,  he  had  felt  uncomfortable,  the  night 
before,  about  something  in  his  behaviour  to 
me,  and  he  had  whispered  to  me,  to  ask  me 
to  forgive  him.  It  was  quite  dark,  and  I 
never  heard  him  :  he  asked  me  to  turn  and 


28  A  BOUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  [Conducted  by 


speak  to  him  ;  but  I  never  stirred,  of  course  ; 
and  no  wonder  he  supposed  I  was  sulking. 
But  all  this  is  very  disagreeable  ;  and  so  I 
will  go  on  to  other  things. 

Mrs.  Owen  was  in  the  orchard  one  day,  and 
she  chanced  to  look  over  the  hedge,  and  she 
saw  me  lying  on  my' face  on  the  ground.  I 
used  often  to  be  so  then,  for  I  was  stupid  at 
play,  where  there  was  any  calling  out,  and 
the  boys  used  to  make  game  of  me.  Mrs. 
Owen  told  the  Doctor,  and  the  Doctor  said 
there  must  be  something  wrong,  and  he 
should  be  better  satisfied  if  Mr.  Pratt,  the 
surgeon,  saw  me.  Mr.  Pratt  found  out  that 
I  was  deaf,  though  he  could  not  tell  what  was 
the  matter  with  my  ears.  He  would  have 
ut  on  blisters,  and  I  don’t  know  what  else  ; 
ut  the  Doctor  said  it  was  so  near  the  holi¬ 
days,  I  had  better  wait  till  I  got  home.  There 
was  an  end  to  taking  places,  however.  The 
Doctor  told  them  all,  that  it  was  clear  now 
why  I  had  seemed  to  go  back  so  much  ;  and 
that  he  reproached  himself,  and  wondered  at 
everybody — that  the  reason  had  not  been 
found  out  before.  The  top  of  the  class  was 
nearest  to  the  usher,  or  tne  Doctor,-  when  he 
heard  us ;  and  I  was  to  stand  there  always, 
and  not  take  places  with  the  rest.  After 
that,  I  heard  the  usher  very  well,  and  got  on 
again.  And  after  that,  the  boys,  and  par¬ 
ticularly  Charley,  were  kinder  again  ;  and  if 
I  had  been  good-tempered,  I  dare  say  all 
would  have  gone  right.  But,  somehow,  every¬ 
thing  seemed  to  go  wrong  and  be  uncomfort¬ 
able,  wherever  I  might  be,  and  I  was  always 
longing  to  be  somewhere  else.  I  was  longing 
now  for  the  holidays.  I  dare  say  every  boy 
was  longing  for  the  holidays ;  but  I  was  par¬ 
ticularly,  because  everything  at  home  was 
so  bright,  and  distinct,  and  cheerful,  compared 
with  school,  that  half-year.  Everybody 
seemed  to  have  got  to  speak  thick  and 
low  ;  most  of  the  birds  seemed  to  have  gone 
away ;  and  this  made  me  long  more  to  see 
my  turtle-doves,  which  Peggy  had  promised 
to  take  care  of  for  me.  Even  the  church-bell 
seemed  as  if  it  was  muffled ;  and  when  the 
organ  played,  there  were  great  gaps  in  the 
music,  which  was  so  spoiled  that  I  used  to 
think  I  had  rather  there  had  been  no  music 
at  all.  But  all  this  is  disagreeable  too  ;  so  I 
will  go  on  ,a bout  Charley. 

His  father  and  mother  asked  me  to  go 
home  with  him,  to  stay  for  a  week ;  and  father 
said  I  might ;  so  I  went — and  I  never  was  so 
uncomfortable  in  my  life.  I  did  not  hear 
what  they  said  to  each  other,  unless  I  was 
quite  in  the  middle  of  them,  and  I  knew  I 
looked  stupid  when  they  were  all  laughing, 
and  I  did  not  know  what  it  was  about.  I 
was  sure  that  Charley’s  sisters  were  quizzing 
me, — Kate  particularly.  I  felt  always  as  if 
everybody  was  looking  at  me ;  and  I  know 
they  talked  about  me  sometimes.  I  know  it 
because  I  heard  something  that  Mrs.  Felkin 
said  one  day,  when  there  was  a  noise  in  the 
street,  and  she  spoke  loud  without  knowing 


it.  I  heard  her  say,  “  He  never  told  us  the 
poor  child  was  deaf.”  I  don’t  know  why,  but 
I  could  not  bear  this.  And,  after  that,  some 
of  them  were  always  telling  me  things  in  a 
loud  voice,  so  that  everybody  turned  and 
looked  at  me;  and  then  I  made  a  mistake 
sometimes  about  what  they  told  me;  and  one 
mistake  was  so  ridiculous  that  I  saw  Kate 
turn  her  back  to  laugh,  and  she  laughed  for 
ever  so  long  after.  Altogether,  I  could  not 
bear  it,  and  so  I  ran  away.  It  was  all  very 
silly  of  me,  and  I  know  I  was  very  ill-tempered, 
and  I  know  how  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Felkin  must 
have  found  themselves  mistaken  about  me, 
as  a  friend  for  Charley ;  but  I  did  not  see 
any  use  in  staying  longer,  just  to  be  pitied 
and  laughed  at,  without  doing  any  good  to 
anybody  ;  so  I  ran  away  at  the  end  of  three 
days.  I  did  so  long  to  come  home;  for  I 
never  had  any  doubt  that  everything  would 
be  comfortable  at  home.  I  knew  where  the 
coach  passed,  —  a  mile  and  a  half  from  Mr.  I 
Felkin’s, — very  early  in  the  morning,  and  I 
got  out  of  the  study  window  and  ran. 
Nobody  was  up,  though,  and  I  need  not  have 
been  afraid.  I  had  to  ask  the  gardener  for 
the  key  of  the  back  gate,  and  he  threw  it  to 
me  from  his  window.  When  I  was  outside,  I 
called  to  him  to  bid  him  ask  Charley  to  send 
my  things  after  me  to  my  father’s  house.  By 
the  road-side,  there  was  a  pond,  under  a  high 
hedge,  and  with  some  dark  trees  bending 
over  it.  It  just  came  into  my  head  to  drown 
myself  there,  and  I  should  be  out  of  every 
body’s  way,  and  all  this  trouble  would  be  at 
an  end.  But  ah  !  when  I  saw  our  church- 
steeple,  I  was  happy  !  When  I  saw  our 
own  gate,  I  thought  I  should  go  on  to  be 
happy. 

But  I  did  not.  It  was  all  over  directly.  I 
could  not  hear  what  my  mother  whispered 
when  she  kissed  me  ;  and  all  their  voices 
were  confused  and  everything  else  seemed 
to  have  grown  still  and  dull.  I  might  have 
known  ail  that ;  but  somehow  I  did  not  ex¬ 
pect  it.  I  had  been  vexed  that  the  Felkins 
called  me  deaf ;  and  now  I  was  hurt  at  the 
way  in  which  my  brothers  and  sisters  used  to 
find  fault  with  me  for  not  hearing  tilings. 
Ned  said%  once  {(  none  are  so  deaf  as  those 
that  won’t  hear  ;  ”  and  my  mother  told  me, 
every  day,  that  it  was  inattention  ;  that  if  I 
were  not  so  absent,  I  should  hear  as  much  as 
anybody  else.  I  don’t  think  I  was  absent.  I 
know  I  used  to  long  and  to  try  to  hear  till  I 
could  not  help  crying  ;  and  then  I  ran  and  T 
bolted  myself  into  my  own  room.  I  think  I 
must  have  been  half  crazy  then,  judging  by 
what  I  did  to  my  turtle-doves.  Peggy  had 
taken  very  good  care  of  them  ;  and  they 
soon  knew  me  again,  and  used  to  perch  on 
my  head  and  my  shoulder,  as  if  I  had  never 
been  away.  But  their  cooing  was  not  the 
least  like  what  it  used  to  be.  I  could  not 
hear  it  at  all,  unless  I  put  my  head  against 
the  cage.  I  could  hear  some  other  birds  very 
well ;  so  I  fancied  it  must  somehow  be  the 


Charles  Dickens. J  THE  DEAF  PLAYMATE’S  STORY.  '  2D 


fault  of  the  doves  that  they  would  not  coo  to 
me.  One*  day  I  took  one  of  them  out  of  the 
cage,  and  coaxed  her  at  first,  and  tried  every 
way  ;  and  at  last  I  squeezed  her  throat  a 
little.  I  suppose  I  got  desperate  because  she 
would  not  coo  as  I  wanted  ;  and  I  killed  her 
— broke  her  neck.  You  all  remember  about 
that — how  I  was  punished,  and  so  on  :  but 
nobody  knew  how  miserable  I  was.  I  will 
not  say  any  more  about  that :  and  I  would 
not  have  mentioned  it  but  for  what  it  led  to. 

The  first  thing  that  it  led  to,  was,  that  the 
whole  family  were,  in  a  way,  afraid  of  me. 
The  girls  used  to  slink  away  from  me  ;  and 
never  let  me  play  with  the  baby — as  if  I  should 
strangle  that !  I  used  to  pretend  not  to  care 
for  being  punished  ;  and  I  know  I  behaved 
horridly.  One  thing  was— a  very  disagreeable 
thing — that  I  found  father  and  mother  did 
not  know  every  thing.  Till  now,  I  had 
always  thought  they  did :  but,  now,  they  did 
not  know  me  at  all ;  and  that  was  no  great 
wonder,  behaving  as  I  did  then.  But  they 
used  to  advise  things  that  were  impossible. 
They  used  to  desire  me  to  ask  always  what 
everybody  said :  but  we  used  to  pass,  every 
Sunday,  the  tombstone  of  old  Miss  Chapman  ; 
and  I  remembered  liow  it  used  to  be  when 
anybody  saw  her  coming  in  at  the  gate.  They 
used  to  cry  out  u  0  dear,  here  comes  Miss 
Chapman  !  What  shall  we  do  ?  She  will 
stay  till  dinner  time,  and  we  shall  not  get 
back  our  voices  for  a  week.  Well !  don’t  tell 
her  all  she  asks  for.  She  is  never  satisfied. 
Really  it  is  a  most  dreadful  bore,”  and  so  on, 
till  she  was  at  the  room  door.  This  was 
because  she  would  know  everything  that 
everybody  said.  I  could  not  bear  to  be 
like  her;  and  I  could  not  bear  now  to 
i  think  how  we  all  used  tq  complain  of  her.  It 
was  only  from  a  sort  of  feeling  then  that  I 
did  not  do  what  my  father  and  mother  told 
me,  and  that  I  vwa3  snre  they  did  not  under¬ 
stand  about  it :  but  now,  I  see  why,  and  so 
do  they.  One  can’t  tell  what  is  worth  re¬ 
peating  and  what  is  not.  If  one  never  asks, 
somebody  always  tells  what  it  is  best  to  tell ; 
but  if  one  is  always  asking  and  teasing, 
people  must  get  as  tired  of  one  as  we  were  of 
poor  Miss  Chapman. 

So,  I  had  to  get  on  all  alone.  I  used  to  read 
in  a  corner,  great  part  of  the  day  ;  and  I  used 
to  walk  by  myself — long  walks  over  the  com¬ 
mon,  while  the  others  used  to  go  together  to 
the  meadows,  or  through  the  lanes.  My 
father  commanded  me  to  go  with  the  rest ; 
and  then  I  used  to  get  another  ramble  by  my¬ 
self.  There  was  a  pond  on  the  common,  so 
far  like  that  one  in  the  lane  I  spoke  of,  that 
it  put  me  in  mind  of  what  I  mentioned.  I 
used  to  sit  and  look  into  the  pond  and  throw 
stones  in.  VI  began  to  fancy,  now,  that  I 
should  be  happier  when  I  got  back  to  school 
again.  It  was  very  silly  when  I  had  once 
been  so  disappointed  about  home  ;  but,  I 
suppose  everybody  is  always  hoping  for 
something  or .  other — and  I  did  not  know 


what  else  to  hope.  But  I  keep  getting  into 
disagreeable  things  and  forgetting  Chaiiey. 

One  night  when  the  elder  ones  were  just 
thinking  of’  going  to  bed,  I  came  down  in  my 
night-clothes,  walking  in  my  sleep  with  my 
eyes  wide  open.  The  stone  hall,  so  cold  to  my 
bare  feet,  awoke  me  ;  but  yet  I  could  not  have 
been  quite  awake,  for  I  went  into  the  kitchen 
instead  of.  up  to  bed  again,  and  I  remember 
very  little  about  that  night.  They  say  I  j 
stared  at  the  candles  the  whole  time  ;  but  I  j 
remember  Dr.  Robinson  being  there.  I  sel¬ 
dom  slept  well  then.  I  was  always  dreaming  ( 
and  starting, — dreaming  of  all  sorts  of  music,  j 
and  of  hearing  the  wind,  and  people  talking  ; 
and  then  of  all  sorts  of  trouble  from  not  being 
able  to  hear  anybody  ;  and  it  always  ended 
with  a  quarrel  with  Charley,  and  my  knocking 
him  down.  But  my  mother  knew  nothing  of 
this,  and  she  was  as  frightened  that  night  as  l1 
if  I  had  been  crazy.  The  Doctor  advised 
them  to  send  me  to  school  again  for  one  half- 
year,  and  see  how  I  got  on  after  some  ex-  I 
periments  had  been  tried  with  my  ears.  But 
I  want  to  get  on  about  Charley. 

'  Charley  arrived  at  school,  two  hours  after 
me.  He  seemed  not  to  like  to  shake  hands, 
and  he  walked  away  directly.  I  saw  he  did 
not  mean  to  be  friends ;  and  I  supposed  he 
felt  his  father’s  house  insulted  by  my  running 
away.  But,  I  did  not  know  all  the  reason  he 
had, — neither  then,  nor  for  some  time  after. 
When  we  became  friends  again,  I  found  that 
Kate  had  seen  how  hurt  I  was  at  her  laugh¬ 
ing  at  me,  and  that  she  was  so  sorry  that  she 
went  up  to  my  room-door  several  times,  and 
knocked,  and  begged  that  I  would  forgive 
her ;  or  that  I  would  open  my  door,  and 
speak  to  her,  at  least.  She  knocked  so  loud 
that  she  never  doubted  my  hearing  her ;  but 
I  never  did,  and  the  next  thing  was  that  I 
ran  away.  Of  course,  Charley  could  not 
forgive  this  ;  he  was  my  great  enemy  now.  j 
In  school,  he  beat  me,  of  course ;  every  j 
body  might  do  that  :  but  I  had  a  chance  j 
in  things  that  were  not  done  in  class, —  ■ 
such  as  the  Latin  essay  for  a  prize,  for 
instance.  Charley  was  bent  upon  getting 
that  prize,  and  he  thought  he  should,  be-  ! 
cause,  though  he  was  younger  than  I,  he  * 
was  a  good  deal  before  me  in  school. 
However,  I  got  the  prize ;  and  some  of  the 
boys  said  it  was  a  shame.  They  thought  it 
was  through  favour,  because  I  had  grown 
stupid.  They  said  so,  and  Charley  said  so  ;  and 
he  provoked  me  all  he  could, — more  on  Kate’s 
account  than  his  own,  though,  as  he  told  me 
afterwards.  One  day,  he  insulted  me  so  in 
the  play-ground,  that  I  knocked  him  down. 
There  was  no  reason  why  I  should  not  now  ; 
for  he  had  grown  very  much,  and  was  as 
strong  as  I  had  ever  been,  while  I  was 
nothing  like  so  strong  as  I  had  been,  or  as  I 
am  now.  The  moment  he  was  up,  he  flew  at 
me  in  the  greatest  rage  that  ever  you  saw.  1 
I  was  the  same  :  and  we  were  hurt  enough,  I 
can  tell  you, — both'  of  us, — so  much,  that 


30  A  BOUND  OF  STOEIES  BY  THE  CHBISTMAS  FIBE.  [Conducted  by 


Mrs.  Owen  came  to  see  us* in  our  own  rooms 
(for  we  liad  not  the  same  room  this  half-year). 
We  did  not  want  to  tell  her  anything,  or  to 
seem  to  make  a  party.  But  she  somehow  found 
out  that  I  felt  very  lonely,  and  was  very  un¬ 
happy.  I  am  sure  it  was  her  doing  that  the 
dear,  considerate,  wise  Doctor  was  so  kind  to 
me  when  I  went  into  the  school  again, — being 
very  kind  to  Charley  too.  He  asked  me, 
one  afternoon,  to  go  for  a  drive  with  him  in  his 
gig.  The  reason  lie. gave  was,  that  his  busi¬ 
ness  took  him  near  the  place  where  my  father 
and  he  used  to  go  to  school  together ;  but  I 
believe  it  was  more  that  we  might  have  a 
long  talk,  all  by  ourselves. 

We  talked  a  good  deal  about  some  of  the 
fine  old  heroes,  and  then  about  some  of  the 
martyrs  ;  aud  he  said,  what  to  be  sure  is  true, 
that  it  is  an  advantage  for  any  one  to  know 
clearly,  from  beginning  to  end,  what  his 
heroism  is  to  be  about,  that  he  may  arm  him¬ 
self  with  courage  and  patience,  and  be  secure 
against  surprises.  I  began  thinking  of  my¬ 
self  ;  but  I  did  not  suppose  lie  , did,  till  it 
came  out  by  degrees.  He  thought  that  deafness 
and  blindness  were  harder  to  bear  than  almost 
anything.  He  called  them  calamities.  I 
can’t  tell  you  all  he  said  :  he  never  meant 
that  I  should :  but  he  told  me  the  very  worst ; 
and  lie  said  that  he  did  it  on  purpose.  He 
told  me  what  a  hopeless  case  he  believed  mine 
to  be,  and  what  it  would  cut  me  off  from  ; 
but,  he  said  that  nothing  of  the  sort  could  cut  a 
person  off  from  being  a  hero,  and  here  was  the 
way  wide  open  for  me  :  not  for  the  fame  of  it, 
but  for  the  tiling  itself.  I  wondered  that-  I 
had  never  thought  of  all  that  before  ;  but  I 
don’t  think  I  shall  ever  forget  it. 

Well !  When  we  came  back,  there  was 
Charley  loitering  about, — looking  for  us, 
clearly.  He  asked  me  whether  we  should  be 
friends.  I  was  very  willing,  of  course  :  and 
it  was  still  an  hour  to  supper ;  so  we  went 
and  sat  oil  the  wall  under  the  apple-tree,  and 
talked  over  everything.  There,  we  found  how' 
much  we  had  both  been  mistaken,  and  that 
we  did  not  really  hate,  one  another  at  all. 
Ever  since  that,  I  have  liked  him  better  than 
ever  I  did  before,  and  that  is  saying  a  great 
deal.  He  never  triumphs  over  me  now  ;  and 
he  tells  me  fifty  things  a-day  that  lie  never 
used  to  think  of.  He  says  I  used  to  look  as 
ii  I  did  not  like  to  be  spoken  to  ;  but  that  I 
have  chipped  up  wonderfully.  And  I  know 
that  lie  lias  given  up  his  credit  and  his  plea¬ 
sure,  many  a  time,  to  help  me,  and  to  stay  by 
me.  He  will  not  have  that  trouble  at  school 
again,  as  I  am  not  going  r back  *  but  I  know 
how  it  will  be  at  Charley’s  home,  this  time.  I 
know  it,  by  his  saying  that  Kate  will  never 
laugh  at  me  again.  I  believe  she  might,  for 
that  matter.  At  least,  I  think  I  could  stand 
most  people’s  laughing,  now.  Father  and 
mother,  and  everybody,  know  that  the  whole 
thing  is  quite  altered  now,  and  that  Charley 
and  I  shall  never  quarrel  again.  I  shall  not 
run  away  from  that  house  again, — nor  from 


any  other  house.  It  is  so  much  better  to  look 
things  in  the  face  !  How  you  all  nod,  and 
agree  with  me ! 


THE  GUEST’S  STOBY. 

About  twenty  years  ago,  I  was  articled  j 
clerk  in  the  small  seaport  town  of  Muddle- 
borough,  half  rural,  half  fishing,  with  a  small 
remains  of  once  profitable  smuggling,  and  a 
few  reminiscences  of  successful  privateering,  to 
which  one  street  and  several  public-houses 
owed  their  foundation.  The  rector,  the 
banker,  the  lawyer — my  master,  who  had  the 
tin  cases  of  half  the  county,  in  the  dusty 
dining-room  that  formed  his  office — the 
doctor,  and  the  owner  of  the  two  brigs  and  a 
schooner  which  composed  the  mercantile  navy, 
were  the  acknowledged  heads  of  our  town. 

It  was  a  moot  point  whether  the  banker  or 
my  master,  the  lawyer,  were  the  greater  man. 
The  banker,  Isaac  Scrawby,  was  supposed  to 
be  of  boundless  wealth ;  it  was  before  the 
time  of  Joint-stock  Banks,  and  there  was  not 
a  farmer  or  a  fisherman  who  did  not  prefer 
Scrawby’s  torn,  dingy  notes,  to  the  newest 
Bank  of  England.  His  paper  was  the  stock 
of  canvas  bags,  and  was  hoarded  away  in  old 
women’s  worsted  stockings ;  as  was  plainly 
shown  when  he  stopped  payment  in  the  first 
crisis  after  Peel’s  Bill,  and  paid  three  shillings 
in  the  pound.  But  then,  Lawyer  Closeleigh, 
my  master,  besides  being  able  to  lend  every¬ 
body,  money,  knew  all  the  secrets  of  the 
county,  and  had  a  hand  in  everything  — 
except  the  births,  which  lie  left  to  the  doctor. 

There  were  three  or  four  clerks  who  jog- 
trotted  through  the  business.  Old  Closeleigh 
generally  wore  a  green  coat  with  gilt  basket 
buttons :  breeches,  and  top-boots  ;  seldom  sat 
down  or  took  up  a  pen  except  to  write  a 
letter  to  a  great  client ;  but  held  audiences 
on  market  days,  and  gave  advice,  and  took 
instructions  at  coverside  in  the  limiting 
season. 

AvS  a  large  premium  had  been  paid  with 
me,  of  course  I  did  nothing  ;  an  attempt  was 
made  while  I  was  yet  green,  by  old  Foumart, 
the  common  law  clerk,  to  induce  me  to 
serve  writs ;  but,  that  having  failed,  I  was 
left  to  take  care  of  one  of  the  rooms  of  the 
deserted  mansion  which  formed  our  offices, 
and- to  entertain  the  clients  who  were  shown 
in  to  wait  their  turn. 

Duluess  and  respectability  were  the  charac¬ 
teristics  of  our  town.  We  had  few  poor,  or 
if  we  had,  we  never  heard  much  about  them. 
The  same  people  went  through  the  same  duties 
and  the  same  serious  amusements,  all  the  year 
round.  Tlie  commencement  of  the  fishing 
season,  and  the  annual  fair,  were  our  only  event  s. 
There  were  no  fortunes  made  or  lost.  Smug- 
glingjunder  the  modern  arrangements,  had  be¬ 
come  too  hazardous  and  low  for  respectable 
people  to  venture  on,  although  there  were 
strange  stories  afloat,  as  to  the  adventures  of 
the  fathers  of  the  present  generation. 


Charles  Dickens.} 


THE  GUEST'S  STOBY. 


31 


Every  year,  the  more  restless  and  ambitious 
young  men  of  all  classes  swarmed  away  to 
regions  where  industry  was  more  active.  In 
a  word,  “ our  town”  was  the  quietest, 
sleepiest  collection  of  plodding,  saving,  non¬ 
speculating  folks,  whose  utmost  efforts 
enabled  them  to  keep  the  town-pump  in 
repair,  and  the  roof  of  the  town-hall  water¬ 
tight  ;  but,  who  could  never  be  induced  to  raise 
money  enough  to  build  a  much  needed  pier, 
or  to  remit  the  town  dues,  in  order  to  induce 
a  steamboat — arecent  innovation' which  passed 
our  port — to  call  in  and  open  up  competition 
with  the  slow  sailing  coasters  on  which  we 
were  dependent  for  communication  with  the 
next  town. 

Into  this  English  Sleepy  Hollow,  there 
came  one  day — whether  by  land  or  water,  in 
a  fishing-boat,  or  on  his  sturdy  legs,  never 
was  known — a  tall,  thin,  pale,  bronzed, 
soldier-like  looking  man,  between  forty  and 
fifty  years  of  age  :  with  one  hand,  and  an 
iron  hook  screwed  on  a  wooden  block  where 
his  other  should  have  been ;  scantily  dressed 
in  a  half-soiled,  half  gamekeeper  suit. 

A  party,  including  the  parson,  the  doctor, 
and  my  master,  Mr.  Clo&eleigh,  were  going  out 
shooting  over  a  famous  woodcock  cover,  and 
were  lamenting  aloud  the  absence  of  old  Phil 
Snare—* the  best  beater  in  the  county— when 
the  one-armed  man  offered  his  services,  in  a 
manner  so  neat,  civil,  and  respectful,  that, 
although  there  was  a  slight  taste  of  brogue 
in  his  accent,  and  ours  was  a  county  where 
wandering  Irishmen  were  not  held  in  much 
favour,  they  were  accepted.  A  long  hazel 
wand  was  soon  in  his  hand  ;  and,  before  the 
day  was  over,  it  was  universally  acknow¬ 
ledged  that  one-handed  Peter  was  the  best 
beater,  and  the  most  amusing  handy  fellow, 
that  any  of  the  party  had  ever  known. 
According  to  liis  story,  he  was  a  pensioned 
soldier  proceeding  to  visit  a  relation  whom  he 
hoped  to  find  well  settled  at  a  town  a  hundred 
miles  to  the  north.  A  glass  of  grog  opened 
his  mouth;  and  he  related  with  great  tact  a 
few  of  his  adventures. 

Prom  that  day,  Peter  became  the  odd-man 
of  the  town,  and  every  one  wondered  how  we 
had  done  so  long  without  so  useful  a  per¬ 
sonage.  He  carried  letters,  he  cleaned  gnns, 
he  manufactured  flics  for  fishing,  he  doctored 
dogs,  he  brought  the  messages  of  wives — 
wrapped  in  a  droll  envelope  of  his  own — to 
dilatory  husbands  delaying  at  club  dinners  ; 
he  took  the  place  of  the  doctor’s  boy  and 
the  lawyer’s,  too  ;  was  always  ready  with  a 
grave  face  and  a  droll  answer  ;  was  never 
tired,  and  seldom  in  a  hurry.  He  walked  in 
and  out  of  all  houses  like  a  tame  cat,  and 
made  a  capital  living,  as  all  people  do  who 
manage  to  become  the  indispensable  solvers 
of  difficulties. 

In  a  very  short  time  Peter  had  emerged,  a 
very  butterfly,  from  the  grub  or  chrysalis 
state.  The  ragged  shooting-jacket  was  dis¬ 
carded  for  a  green  coat  of  loose  fit  and 


many  pockets,  smart  enough  for  my  Lord 
Browse’s  head  gamekeeper.  An  open  waist¬ 
coat  displayed  highly  respectable  linen  ;  from 
head  to  foot  he  showed  the  advantage  of 
being  on  good  credit  with  the  best  tradesmen  ; 
and  yet  he  owned  no  master.  He  began  to 
give  up  carrying  messages,  except  for  the 
“  fust  of  the  quality ;  ”  had  a  staff  of  boys,  to 
whom,  he  gave  orders  ;  and,  when  out  on  a 
shpoting  party,  carried  a  capital  gun  —  the 
property  of  a  sporting  publican — with  the 
air  of  one  who  came  out  purety  for  health, 
exercise,  and  sport ;  and  not  the  least  like  the 
half-starved  ragged  creature  who  had  been  too 
happy  to  sleep  in  a  barn,  and  accept  a  plate 
Of  broken  meat. 

1  But,  the  favour  in  which  Peter  was  held 
was  not  confined  to  our  sportsmen  ;  he  seemed 
equally  taken  into  the  confidence  of  those  who 
never  handled  a  gun  or  threw  a  fly.  He 
began  with  the  smallest  tradesmen,  but 
grew  daily  more  indispensable  to  our  most 
topping  shopkeepers.  Mr.  Tammy,  the  draper 
in  the  market-place,  who  always  wore  a 
white  cravat  and  pumps,  was  seen  walking 
in  his  garden  with  Peter  for  an  hour  one 
evening,  by  Miss  Spark,  who  peeped  through 
a  hole  in  the  garden  door  ;  and  she  declared 
that  Peter  at  parting  patted  Tammy  on  the 
back — yet  he  was  churchwarden  that  year ! 
This  story  was  at  first  disbelieved,  although 
it  was  remarked  that  Peter’s  improvement 
in  hosiery  dated  from  that  garden  walk. 
Soon  afterwards,  Kinine,  our  head  chemist 
and  druggist,  a  great  orator  at  parish  meet¬ 
ings,  and  a  scientific  authority,  was  observed 
by  his  errand-boy  studying  geography,  with 
a  large  map  before  him  :  over  which  Peter’s 
iron  hook  travelled  with  great  rapidity. 
From  that  time,  the  whole  town  seemed 
seized  with  a  rage  for  refreshing  its  geogra¬ 
phical  studies.  Spain  and  Portugal  were  the 
special  localities  in  favour  ;  the  demand  for 
books  on  the  Peninsular  War  became  great 
at  the  circulating  library  ;  and  the  bookseller 
in  the  market  received  orders  for  not  less 
than  three  Portuguese  dictionaries,  in  one 
week. 

As  for  Peter,  he  became  a  lion  of  the  first 
magnitude.  He  breakfasted  with  Smoker, 
the  sporting  publican— dined  with  Tiles  the 
shoemaker— took  tea  with  Jolly  the  butcher 
— supped  with  Kinine  the  druggist — and 
held  cnats  with  Smooth  the  barber,  and  Mr. 
Closeleigh  himself.  Ostensibly,  he  was  asked 
to  relate  the  stories  of  his  campaigns, 
which  he  did  with  great  unction  ;  and, 
strangely  enough,  people  never  seemed  tired 
of  hearing  of  Peter’s  marches,  Peter’s  battles, 
and  how  Peter  lost  his  hand.  It  was  re¬ 
marked  by  the  curious,  that  these  battle 
stories  always  elided  in  Peter’s  being  taken 
mysteriously  into  some  back  parlour  or 
garden,  there  to  whisper  for  an  hour  or 
two  with  the  head  of  the  house  over  a  pipe 
and  strong  waters ;  though  no  one  ever 
saw  Peter  the  worse  for  liquor.  Nti,  Peter 


32  A  ROUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  [Conducted by 

always  seemed  to  imbibe  silence  with  his 
grog.  ,  ... 

At  length,  in  spite  of  very  vigorous  at¬ 
tempts  at  mystery,  it  began  to  be  whispered 
about,  that  Peter  was  the  owner  of  a  valuable 
secret  concerning  a  treasure  buried  in  the 
wars.  People  not  yet  in  his  confidence  pooh- 
poohed  the  idea,  and  yet  Peter’s  friends  in¬ 
creased  in  number  daily. 

For  my  own  part,  I  had  not  yet  arrived  at 
the  money-hunting  age ;  my  heart  was  then 
all  upon  horses  and  dogs,  embroidered  waist¬ 
coats,  and  Albanian  fancy  dresses  :  with  some 
dreams  of  Gulnares  and  Medoras,  and 
pretty  Annie  Blondie,  the  rector’s  daughter. 
A  hidden  treasure  did  not  excite  me  to  desire 
Peter’s  patronage,  nearly  so  much  as  his  skill 
in  dressing  a  Mayfly.  As  it  happened,  my 
passion  for  fishing  let  me  into  the  secret 
which  had  been  travelling  up  and  down  the 
best  streets  of  our  town. 

One  fine  summer’s  evening  I  had  been 
trying  all  I  knew,  without  success,  to  inveigle 
a  great  four  pound  trout,  who  kept  lazily 
rising  and  sinking  at  the  far  side  of  a  deep 
pool,  under  the  overhanging  roots  of  a  gnarled 
willow-tree  ;  when  Peter,  stealing  with  his 
quiet  lengthy  stride  across  the  grass,  made 
his  appearance  at  my  elbow  suddenly. 

“  Will  you  let  me  try,  Master  Charles,  what 
I  can  do  with  the  big  rogue  ?  ”  * 

I  did  let  him,  and  he  dropped  the  fly — a  fly 
of  his  own  making — -just  behind  the  big  trout, 
as  light  as  thistle-down  ;  one  dash,  one  splash  ; 
and  in  ten  minutes  the  trout  was  safe  under 
my  landing  net,  flapping  out  his  life  on  the 
grass. 

“  Always  throw  just  behind  them  big  ’uns, 
Master  Charles,  and  they’ll  take  sure  enough, 
but  they  won’t  look  at  a  fly  just  before  them. 
Same  as  rich  men  for  that !  ”  added  Peter, 
with  a  chuckle. 

This  triumph  over  the  trout  led  the  way 
to  chat  on  the  grass,  and,  little  by  little,  we 
got  at  last  to  Peter’s  battles  in  Spain  and 
Portugal.  I  cannot  do  justice  to  Peter’s  oily 
flattery,  and  the  sympathy  he  expressed  for 
a  raal  gintleman  and  a  sportsman  :  not  like 

1  the  poor  mean  beggars  of  peddling  shop¬ 
keepers.  He  made  me  understand  that  I  was 
one  who  would  spend  money  in  true  style  if  I 
had  it ;  and  then,  after  hinting  that  a  beautiful 
young  lady  in  the  neighbourhood  had  con¬ 
fided  to  Peter — every  one  did  confide  in  Peter 
— her  preference  for  Master  Charles,  with 
many  artful  round-abouts  he  confided  to  me 
the  following  story  ;  the  key  to  the  favour  he 
had  acquired  among  all  ranks  of  the  good 
people  of  Muddleborough. 

Peter  declared  that  during  the  retreat  to 
Torres  Vedras,  he  and  two  other  comrades 
were  entrusted  with  the  care  of  a  waggon 
laden  with  boxes  of  gold  doubloons  ;  that  in  a 
skirmish  they  had  retreated  for  safety  to  a 
convent,  and  there  tilted  the  waggon-load, 
all  but  one  box,  into  a  deep  convent  well. 
Th,e  same  day,  all  his  companions  were  killed 

in  action,  and  he  was  wounded  and  laid  in  the 
hospital.  At  this  point  of  his  story  he  ex¬ 
hibited  a  ghastly  scar  in  his  side. 

The  one  box  they  had  partly  divided 
amongst  them,  and  partly  buried.  He  had, 
on  recovery,  been  sent  to  join  his  regiment, 
and  marched  to  the  Pyrenees  and  Toulouse : 
where  he  lost  his  hand.  On  his  arrival  in 
England  he  was  discharged  with  a  pension 
(here  he  produced  papers)  ;  he  had  after 
long  trials  succeeded  in  getting  back  to 
Portugal ;  he  had  found  the  Convent  deserted, 
and  the  well  half  filled  with  rubbish  ;  he  had 
discovered,  too,  the  small  parcel  of  doubloons, 
but  found  that  it  would  require  the  influence 
of  some  real  gentleman  to  get  the  treasure 
out  of  the  well,  and  out  of  the  country.  When 
liis  romance  had  proceeded  thus  far,  he  pro¬ 
duced  from  some  recondite  part  of  his 
garments,  wrapped  in  many  rags,  a  real 
golden  doubloon. 

Who  could  disbelieve  so  circumstantial  a 
story,  supported  by  so  much  evidence  ?  He 
went  on  to  say  that  the  publican,  the  druggist, 
the  shoemaker,  the  gunsmith,  and  many 
others,  were  all  anxious  to  go  in  partnership, 
and  start  for  Portugal ;  that  Mr.  Tammy  was 
willing  to  advance  something  handsome  on 
the  speculation  ;  but  that  he  preferred  dealing 
with  a  young  gentleman  of  spirit,  and  that  if 

I  could  persuade  my  rich  aunt  to  advance  the 
money  necessary  for  the  journey — a  trifle  of 
two  hundred  pounds — he  was  willing  to  give 
up  the  handsome  offers  of  Tammy,  Kinine, 
Tiles,  Smoker,  and  all  the  rest  of  them  ;  and 
set  out  with  me,  secretly  and  alone,  to  rifle 
this  new  cave  of  Aladdin.  His  plans  were 
very  complete.  We  were  to  hire  a  vineyard 
— part  of  the  old  convent  grounds — and,  after 
getting  up  the  treasure,  were  to  pack  it  in 
Port- wine  casks  with  double  bottoms,  and 
then,  returning,  share  the  spoil.  I  was  to 
marry  a  beautiful  lady,  keep  a  pack  of 
hounds,  and  be  the  head  of  the  county  ; 
while  Peter  was  modest  and  would  be  quite 
satisfied  with  enough  to  maintain  a  horse,  a 
couple  of  setters,  and  the  life  of  a  squireen. 

The  romance  was  well  put  together  and 
most  insinuatingly  told ;  but,  I  was  rather 
too  young,  too  indifferent,  too  merry,  and  too 
full  of  little  minor  schemes,  to  bite.  Besides, 

I  did  not  think  that  my  Aunt  Bebecca  would 
give  me  two  hundred  pounds  to  go  to  Portugal 
with  a  strange  Irishman  ;  and  I  did  not  quite 
like  the  notion  of  leaving  my  favourite  Annie 
Blondie  to  the  exclusive  care  of  my  rival,  the 
young  curate.  So,  after  giving  Peter  my 
honour  that  I  would  not  reveal  the  mo¬ 
mentous  secret  to  any  living  soul,  we  parted 
at  the  Fisherman  Tavern :  where  I  paid  for 
divers  glasses  of  grog,  and  presented  Peter 
with  the  only  half-sovereign  I  was  iikely  to 
have  that  week. 

In  the  course  of  the  month  Peter  was 
missing.  It  was  observed  that  all  his  patrons 
— Smoker,  and  Tiles,  Jolly,  Kinine,  and 
Tammy  —  looked  particularly  pleased  and 

i 

- 

Charles  Dickens.* 


THE  MOTHER’S  STORY. 


33 


mysterious  when  they  heard  others  wonder 
at  his  disappearance  without  beat  of  drum. 

About  a  week  after  Peter’s  departure,  Mrs. 
Jolly  went  to  Mrs.  Smoker  to  know  if  she  had 
seen  anything  of  her  husband.  Mrs.  Smoker 
had  not.  Had  Mrs.  Jolly  seen  anything  of 
that  brute  Smoker  ?  The  two  wives  compared 
notes :  both  husbands  had  been  selling  and 
raising  money.  Smoker  had  raffled  his 
favourite  mare  Slap  Bang,  and  Jolly  had  col¬ 
lected  all  his  largest  Midsummer  bills,  and 
taken  her  (Mrs.  Jolly’s)  grandfather’s  silver 
tankard.  Both  had  packed  up  their  Sunday 
clothes,  saddles,  and  guns.  There  was  a 
terrible  hue  and  cry,  which  was  not  mollified 
when  letters  came  from  the  two  absconding 
husbands — one  dated  London,  and  the  other 
Liverpool — stating  that  they  had  only  gone 
to  make  their  fortunes  by  a  safe  speculation, 
and  would  be  back  in  three  months.  Peter 
had  been  suspected  ;  but,  what  was  odd,  they 
both  asked  after  Peter,  and  desired — the  one, 
that  he  might  have  the  run  of  the  ale-tap ; 
the  other,  that  lie  might  have  a  bit  of  beef 
or  mutton  if  he  wanted  it. 

In  the  midst  of  the  hubbub,  Peter  got  down 
one  morning  from  the  top  of  the  coach  from 
the  neighbouring  town  of  Fuddleborougli, 
and  crept  into  the  midst  of  the  gossips  at 
the  Horse  and  Jockey  before  they  were  aware 
of  him.  His  story  was  very  short  and  straight¬ 
forward  ;  he  had  only  been  to  draw  his  pen- 
!  sion  ;  and  he  had  seen  Jolly  at  the  Theatre 
Royal  Covent  Garden  very  drunk,  but  had 
not  spoken  to  him.  In  less  than  an  hour 
he  was  closeted  with  Kinine,  and  he  spent 
the  evening  with  the  Churchwarden. 

In  another  week  it  was  announced  that 
Mr.  Kinine  had  sold  liis  business,  and  was 
leaving  the  town  for  good.  Some  said  he 
was  going  to  study  for  a  physician ;  some 
said  he  had  inherited — others  said  ho  was 
ruined.  At  any  rate  he  left,  and  was  never 
seen  at  Muddleborough  any  more.  The  last 
time  I  heard  of  him  he  was  lecturing  on 
Electro-Biology — or  anything  else  —  admit¬ 
tance  twopence. 

Very  oddly,  on  the  same  week  in  which 
Kinine  gave  up  to  his  successor,  Bluster,  who 
still  keeps  the  establishment,  Tammy  the 
Churchwarden  went  off  to  Manchester — to 
buy  goods,  as  he  said,  although  it  was  not  his 
time  of  the  year  for  buying.  He  left  the  shop 
in  charge  of  young  Binks,  who  afterwards 
married  Mrs.  Tammy.  Tammy  was  away,  six 
j  months  ;  during  the  whole  of  which  period 
poor  Mrs.  Tammy  claimed  to  be  distracted ; 
and  when  lie  came  back  he  was  “  as  thin  as  a 
weasel,  as  bald  as  a  coot,  and  as  yellow  as  a 
guinea.”  So  Miss  Spark  declared  ;  but  very 
few  people  saw  him,  for  he  took  to  his  bed 
and  died :  raving  about  treasure-waggons,  and 
the  villain  Peter,  and  doubloons.  The  day  he 
1  was  buried,  it  all  came  out.  Tammy  had  been 
1  to  Portugal  with  Peter ;  who,  after  travelling 
up  the  country,  had  handed  him  over  to  the 
police  as  a  lieretic-spy,  and  had  departed  with 

i- . ' 


mules,  baggage,  and  all  the  money  that  was 
to  have  been  spent  on  the  vineyard,  the  casks 
with  double  bottoms,  the  waggons,  and  the 
rest  of  the  complete  arrangements. 

Poor  Tammy,  when  discharged,  had  almost 
to  beg  his  way  to  Oporto  ;  and  there,  the  first 
person  he  saw  was  Kinine,  inquiring  at  the 
police-office  for  the  scoundrel  Peter,  who, 
after  a  jollification  in  London  had  marched 
off  with  his  trunks  and  bank-bills —  the  pro¬ 
duce  of  his  business — to  join  Tammy. 

When  poor  Mrs.  Tammy  told  this  tale 
at  the  funeral  breakfast,  the  murder  came 
out.  Peter  had  bamboozled  the  whole  village.  \ 
Everybody,  from  the  cobbler  to  the  parson, 
had  made  an  investment  in  the  Portuguese 
treasure-well.  Smoker  went  through  the  ) 
Gazette  ;  Jolly  had  to  discharge  his  journey¬ 
man  and  do  his  own  killing  ;  every  one 
had  paid  something  for  listening  to  Peter’s 
stories.  He  had  swept  the  old  womens’ 
stocking  hoards,  and  the  servant-girls’  riband 
savings  ;  he  had  had  fifty  pounds  and  some 
tracts  from  the  Rector,  and  twice  as  much, 
and  a  new  gun  from  Mr.  Closeleigh.  The 
banker  had  given  him  a  hundred  pounds 
in  his  own  one-pound  notes.  The  village 
schoolmaster  had  lent  him  his  only  five 
pounds.  In  fact,  he  found  our  town  a 
perfect  bank  of  credulity,  and  he  had  drained 
it  dry.  - 

But  Peter  had  committed  no  legal  offence  : 
he  had  only  told  lies  and  borrowed  money. 

I  heard  of  him  from  time  to  time,  always  as 
being  successful,  until  a  few  years  ago,  when 
he  made  the  mistake  of  taking  a  keen 
American  whom  he  picked  up  in  a  railway- 
carriage,  to  Oporto.  On  this  occasion,  the 
American  came  back  and  Peter  did  not. 
When  asked  after  his  friend,  the  American 
composedly  remarked,  “That  having  had  a 
difficulty  with  Peter,  he  had  been  obliged  to 
shoot  him.” 


THE  MOTHER’S  STORY. 

The  traveller,  of  reverend  mien, 

A  wanderer  from  his  youth  had  been ; 
Dwelt  in  the  desert  and  the  wood, 
Escaped  from  earthquake,  fire  and  flood ; 
And  each  dark  point,  each  vivid  hue, 

That  lay  on  his  wild  pilgrimage, 

Had  melted  to  a  moonlight  view— 

A  quiet,  beautiful  old  age. 

And  travel  to  his  heart  had  brought 
A  world-wide  stretch  of  kindly  thought,' 
Had  given  his  recollecting  eye 
Almost  the  tone  of  infancy. 

And  he  could  make  the  cheek  turn  paJe, 
Yet  better  loved  some  gentle  tale 
Of  love  and  truth  to  tell, 

O’er  which  his  heart  refreshed  would  stay, 
As  traveller  on  some  dusty  way 
Might  linger  by  a  well. 

And  such  a  tale  the  ancient  man 
Here,  at  our  fireside  once  began 

It  was  my  lot,  ’mid  Western  woods, 

To  form  a  friendship  firm  and  dear; 


34  A  BOUND  OF  STORIES  BY  THE  CHRISTMAS  FIRE.  [Conducted 

How  oft  in  those  vast  solitudes 

While  we  would  stop  our  talk,  to  hear 

A  friend  is  sooner  found  than  here  ! 

The  distant  rushing  of  the  deer, 

It  was  a  youth  of  noble  blood 

The  sound  of  falling  water  near  ; 

Who  chose,  in  his  romantic  mood, 

And  Leena,  happy  as  a  child, 

In  hunter's  hut  to  dwell ; 

Brought  for  us  from  her  native  wild 

A  gifted  youth  of  bearing  high, 

A  free,  proud  step,  a  glancing  eye — 

The  gatherings  of  her  heart  : 

Soft  gushes  of  melodious  thonght 

His  name  was  Claude  d’Estrelle. 

Deep  poetry  within  her  wrought, 

His  heart  had  found  him  one  who  made 

Those  solitary  places  glad; 

By  living  long  apart. 

While  Claude’s  bright  smiles  fell  fond  and  fast  , 

A  limiter’s  orphan — left,  while  young, 

Upon  his  dear  enthusiast, 

Her  Indian  mother’s  tribe  among — * 

Who  saw  him  dying  on  the  waste, 

And  on  her  fearless  bosom  placed 

And,  all  untrained,  he  loved  to  find 

Those  blossoms  of  the  uncultured  mind, 

And  thought  not  how  the  world  might  try 

i 

His  fevered  head,  and  touched  his  brow 

The  spirit  of  his  untaugh  t  wife, 

With  hands  as  cool  and  soft  as  snow  ; 

Though  all  who  looked  oil  Lecua’s  eye 

And  when,  at  his  first  conscious  waking, 

Might  feel  some  destined  agony 

He  saw  his  guardian  of  the  woods, 

Lay  folded  in  her  life. 

In  whose  dark  eye  a  hope  was  breaking 

Such  a  high  power  of  deathless  love 

Like  moonlight  over  dusky  floods, 

Did  in  its  depths  unfatliomed  move; 

While  teai*s  of  mingled  joy  and  doubt 

It  seemed  for  special  trials  given, 

Down  from  the  heavy  lashes  ran, 

As  though  her  heart  was  flowing  out 

The  boon  of  a  foreseeing  Heaven. 

In  pity  for  the  lonely  man — 

That  time  of  trial  came  at  last, 

His  mov’d  soul  vowed  that  maiden  brave 

Should  own*  the  life  she  tried  to  save. 

When  five  delightful  years  had  passed, 

And  I  had  wandered  wide. 

So  Leena,  ere  that  summer  fled, 
j  The  noble  Claude  d’Estrelle  had  wed. 

A  second  time  Claude  laid  to  rest 

His  sick  head  on  that  faithful  breast  ; 

So  rested  till  he  died. 

On  one  of  those  red  autumn  eves — 

Then  she  unto  his  brother  went, 

That  gorgeous  time  of  forest  life — 

Amid  its  wealth  of  changing  leaves 

With  those  his  dying  breath  had  sent — 

Her  children  twain,  a  welcome  prize — 

The  last  of  that  proud  race. 

I  first  beheld  my  friend’s  young  wife. 

We  met  upon  an  open  glade, 

But  there  were  none  but  scornful  eyes 

Whence  lines  of  brown  and  purple  shade 

For  her  woe-printed  face ; 

Their  long,  soft  swelling  vistas  made 

And  back  he  harshly  bade  her  go, 

Up  to  the  evening  sky. 

That  those  she  bore  might  yet  outgrow 

And,  while  we  gazed,  some  dim  arcade 

The  sense  of  her  disgrace. 

Would  kindle  suddenly, 

What  1  leave  them  ;  Claude’s  dear  legacy  ! 

How  could  she  let  the  mother  die 

I 

And  gleaming  orange  grove  o’er  grove 

Seem  vying  with  the  clouds  above  : 

While  crimson  foliage,  here  and  there, 

In  such  a  loving  heart  ? 

But,  with  an  uncomplaining  eye, 

(Despair  had  taught  her  art,) 

Would  deepen  in  the  amber  air, 

And  drops  of  glory  fall  between 

She  begged  a  little  while  to  stay. 

On  many  a  glistening  evergreen ; 

And  stole  them  in  the  night  away, 

The  waterfall  to  jewels  turned, 

And  hid  them  in  the  wood  ; 

The  lake  like  one  great  ruby  burned 

Seven  days  and  nights,  was  sorely  pressed, 

Upon  the  wood’s  green  breast; 

And  then,  beside  her  rifled  nest, 

And  all  that  *wildering  splendour  seemed 

A  childless  mother  stood  1 

As  still  as  something  we  had  dreamed  ; 

But  when  her  love’s  strong  crying  still 

The  leafs  light  flutter  to  the  ground 

Did  too  much  chafe  the  iron  will, 

Became  a  noticeable  sound, 

He  gave  her,  with  an  ample  bribe, 

So  silent  was  its  rest ! 

Unto  a  stranger  Indian  tribe 

And  Leena’s  figure,  lithe  and  tall, 

Against  the  glowing  background  stood  : — 

A  slave  oppressed  to  be  ; 

For  there  her  white  blood  was  her  shatne  ; 

Well  might  her  husband  ask  if  all 

The  dames  that  tread  in  courtly  hall 

But  womau’s  heart,  wliate’er  her  name, 

Indian,  or  English,  is  the  same — 

Could  match  liis  lady  of  the  wood  ; 

A  mother  set  her  free. 

There,  wearing  for  her  coronet 

She  tracked  them  to  a  distant  state 

Her  own  rich  bands  of  wavy  jet ; 

By  many  a  wild  and  dangerous  way, 

Soft  as  the  fawn’s  h°r  eye, 

And  prayed  the  tyrant  of  her  fate 

A  colour  on  the  clear  brown  cheek 

Like  evening’s  last  faint  crimson  streak 

That  she,  among  his  slaves,  might  stay 

Near  her  beloved  ones,  though  she  bore 

Upon  the  twilight  sky. 

A  mother’s  precious  name  no  more. 

Long,  pleasant  nights  with  Claude  I  passed 

He  suffered  her  to  take  her  part 

In  his  rude  dwelling  on  the  waste, 

Upon  the  slave’s  tear-watered  soil ; 

Beside  the  fire  of  pine  : 

So  little  knew  the  mother’s  heart, 

While  Leena’s  graceful  tenderness 

Wreathed  round  him  like  the  light  caress 

He  thought  to  tire  it  out  by  toil. 

But,  stronger  than  the  strong  mau’s  will, 

Her  children’s  love  would  own  her  still. 

Of  her  own  forest  vine  ; 

And  love’s  strange  magic  seemed  to  shut 

He  felt  the  taint  must  on  them  lie 

A  palace  in  that  woodland  hut, 

Till  he  had  quenched  her  memory. 

Charles  Dicker,.]  THE  MOTHER'S  STORY.  35 

So  secretly  lie  sent  her  where 
’Neath  Afric’s  hot  unwholesome  air 

A  wild  plantation  lay  ; 

A  fearful  place  of  toil  and  tears, 

Where,  how  she  lived  for  twenty  years, 

Sure  only  God  might  say. 

To  cheer  her  lonely  banishment 

A  dream  of  Claude  He  nightly  sent, 

And  of  the  little  children  too ; 

(For  in  her  heart  they  never  grew). 

Oh,  what  sick  thoughts  wore  out  her  prime ! 

The  long,  long  wasting  of  the  time  ! 

The  dark  hair  changed,  the  eyesight  dim 

Had  spent  itself  in  tears  ; 

But  still  her  firm  and  patient  hope 

Grew  stronger  as  each  slender  prop 

Fell  from  it  with  the  years ; 

And  o’er  her  love,  time  harmless  fled ; 

Absence  but  nursed  it,  tears  but  shed 

A  rainbow  glory  on  its  head  ; 

And  hardship,  pain,  and  cruelty, 

Proved  it,  to  find  it  could  not  die. 

Her  life  did  but  one  thought  contain — 

To  see  her  children  once  again. 

For  twenty  years  she  strove,  and  then 

At  last  she  reached  the  shore  ; 

Heaven  put  it  in  a  sailor’s  heart 

To  let  her  in  his  ship  depart, 

And  seek  her  lost,  once  more. 

She  reached  home  with  the  closing  year ;  / 

Oh,  had  they  died,  those  children  dear  ? 

Had  they  forgotten  ?  No  1  not  her  ! 

To  them  she  begged  her  way  along ; 

Her  earnest  purpose  made  her  strong  ; 

Some  careless  strangers  gave  her  ear 

News  that  it  burned  and  thrilled  to  hear  ; 

How,  when  years  past,  her  old  foe  died, 

Another  childless  brother  tried 

To  bring  her  children  to  his  side  ; 

And  how  her  son  right  gladly  went 

Into  his  forest  settlement. 

Some  said  he  lived  a  hunter  wild, 

And  some  that  lie  had  died  a  child. 

Then  of  her  daughter ; — she  had  stayed 

The  treasure  of  her  wealthy  home, 

And  grown  so  beautiful,  they  said. 

Enough !  For  nought  she  has  not  come. 

The  high  heart  throbs,  the  dark  eyes  fill ; 

Then  one  at  least  is  living  still  l 

Anon,  beside  a  lady  fair 

Stood  Leena  in  a  splendid  room  ; 

Gazed  on  the  curls  of  auburn  hair, 

The  lustrous  eyes,  the  flushing  bloom, 

With  half  a  sigh  to  think  how  wild 

Her  fancy,  that  a  little  child 

Might  meet  her  at  the  door, 

That  might  be  petted  and  caressed, 

And  nestle  in  its  mother’s  breast, 

As  in  the  days  of  yore. 

And  yet  ’twas  with  a  joyful  thrill 

Of  pride  she  saw  her  beauty  still. 

“  Leeua  !  She  does  not  turn  as  though 

It  was  her  name.  Poor  mother,  no  ! 

Alas  for  thee  !  that  cold  surprise, 

So  unbelieving,  so  unmoved — \ 

How  can  she,  with  her  father’s  eyes, 

Look  strangely  on  the  face  he  loved  ? 

The  little  dream-child  she  hath  lost — 

And  yet  may  no  new  daughter  find  ? 

It  cannot  be ;  she  hath  a  host 

Of  memories  to  wake  her  mind. 

Sure  she  has  but  to  prove  her  claim  ! 

She  knows  not  yet  the  mother’s  name. 

She  clasped  her  knees,  to  melt  her  pride 

W7ith  Love’s  pathetic  questions  tried, 

Pausing  between  them  to  espy 

Some  little  softening  in  the  eye. 

Had  she  not  seen  the  eyes  before  her 

At  childish  wakings  bending  o’er  her  ? 

Had  not  these  hands  her  baby  head 

With  forest  blossoms  often  spread  ? 

And  then  that  tune — her  father’s  tune  ! 

How  it  had  been  her  nightly  boon, 

To  hear  it  as  she  sank  to  rest  ? 

An  impulse  moved  the  loving  breast; 

That  time.  »*T  was  but  a  lullaby  ; 

But  she  to  turn  the  air  would  try, 

And  nature’s  sleeping  sympathies 

Beneath  the  sweet  old  notes  might  rise. 

’T  was  a  quaint  fancy  as  might  be, 

And  bom  of  love’s  credulity  ; 

That  song — oh,  how  it  trembled  up  ! 

It  almost  seemed  a  sighing — 

The  farewell  of  departing  Hope  * 

While  Joy  and  Love  lay  dying. 

A  common  tune  it  scarce  could  be ; 

The  heart  had  set  the  homely  words 

To  an  impassioned  melody 

That  swept  from  its  excited  chords  ; 

That,  and  the  face  so  grave  and  meek, 

The  wistful  eye,  the  changing  cheek, 

Made  such  a  touching  spell, 

The  longing  hand  was  fondly  laid 

Upon  her  daughter’s  haughty  head, 

And  there  she  let  it  dwell. 

Yea,  Childhood’s  love  seemed  springing  there. 

But,  hush  !  a  step  upon  the  stair 

That  daughter  loveth  well. 

And  he,  she  knows  his  title  high 

Would  ne’er  to  Indian  blood  ally ; 

Her  pride,  her  love,  are  all  at  stake ; 

She  strives  the  kindly  spell  to  break  • 

Tells  Leena,  with  some  natural  pain, 

That  they  must  never  meet  again  ; 

And  offers — insult  strange  and  cold — 

To  buy  her  secrecy  with  gold. 

The  mother  fled,  as  one  afraid, 

Two  days  and  nights  :  and  never  stayed 

Her  hot  and  panting  feet. 

It  was  the  time  of  festival, 

And  doors  and  hearts  were  open  all, 

And  friend  with  friend  did  greet. 

The  light  and  warmth  around  her  glowed, 

While  hers  was  still  the  frozen  road— 

Au  emblem  of  her  fate. 

And  yet  the  broad,  unsleeping  eye 

That  guides  the  sparrows  in  the  sky, 

Did  £>u  her  footsteps  wait. 

She  sank  beneath  an  oak  tree  bare, 

On  the  third  night,  she  knew  not  where. 

The  pure  snow  seemed  the  only  thing 

To  her  sick  heart’s  imagining 

That  had  not  changed  ;  and  she  would  lie 

Upon  its  quiet  breast,  and  die.  * 

A  little  further,  sinking  heart!. 

To  the  next  turning  only  press; 

’Tis  hard  that  thou  shonld’st  die  ;  thou  art 

But.  one  stone’s  throw  from  happiness  ! 

Hush  !  rising  on  the  frosty  air, 

It  is  a  Christmas  hymn  ! 

The  kindly  sounds  have  reached  her  there  ; 

Have  roused  a  feeling  dim, 

Amid  the  lonesomeness  of  death, 

That  some  one,  on  a  prayerful  breath, 

Her  passing  soul  might  bear  ; 

Perhaps  through  her  exhausted  frame 
Some  strong,  mysterious  impulse  came 
From  Him  who  brought  her  there. 

And,  in  its  strength,  she  dragged  her  feet 
Round  to  a  straggling  village  street, 

And  reached  a  house  of  prayer. 

She  saw  not  how  red  men  and  white, 

(The  sudden  glow,  the  glare  of  light, 

Those  heavy  eyes  made  blind), 

Were  stirring,  ’neath  the  breath  intense 
Of  one  young  preacher’s  eloquence 
Like  corn  before  the  wind. 

At  last  the  listless  ear  was  met 
By  one  consoling  word  : 

“  A  mother  ;  yea,  s/t^may  forget': 

I  will  not,  saith  the  Lord.” 

And,  from  the  preacher’s  lips  there  sprung 
The  grand  poetic  Indian  tongue, 

The  while  his  reaching  fancy  strove 
To  paint  that  holiest  earthly  * 

A  mother’s  ;  and  he  told  a  tale 
So  like  her  own  it  made  her  vsil 
Her  eyes,  lest,  with  a  look  at  him, 

She  might  dispel  a  blissful  dream. 

An d,  as  her  ear  the  rich  voice  drank, 

A  wild  hope,  with  it,  rose  and  sank, 

And  thus  nn  to  an  end  he  drew : 

“  Her  fate,  oh,  would  to  God  I  knew  ! 

Alive,  or  dead,  I  cannot  tell ; 

But  well  I  know  that  mother’s  love 
Here  pining,  or  at  peace  above, 

Hath  not  forgotten  Claude  d’Fstrelle  !  ” 
She  made  no  cry,  she  heard  the  name ; 

A  little  lower  sank  her  head : 

A  gentle  pause  of  being  came, 

And  well  it  did,  or  life  had  fled. 

No  other  words,  nor  prayer,  nor  hymn, 

Nor  gathering  feet  the  long  trance  broke, 
Till,  with  each  sense  confused  and  dim, 

At  last  upon  his  arm  she  woke, 

And  saw  compassion  soft  and  warm 

Rain  o’er  her  from  his  full  dark  eye,  - 
And  felt  as  one  beneath  ft  charm, 

Content  for  ever  thus  to  he  : 

Her  heart  so  weak  with  the  excess 
Of  its  unspoken  happiness. 

Yet,  from  her  lips  his  own  words  fell — 

“  Hath  not  forgotten  Claude  d’Estrelle.5’ 
And  then  her  shaking  hand  did  seek 
To  part  his  hair,  to  touch  his  cheek  ; 

The  voice,  the  touch,  the  loving  eyes, 

Did  link  up  broken  memories 
That  could  not  be  withstood; 

His  life  with  Nature  and  with  Heaven 
To  him  had  quick  perceptions  given  : 

His  heart  was  at  the  flood ; 

It  moved  him  on,  he  could  not  speak, 

But,  with  strong  weeping  clasped  her  neek. 
And  sobbing  women,  at  the  scene, 

Dropped  tear  for  tear  with  hardened  men ; 
And  e’en  the  Indians  of  the  wood 
Like  weeping  children  round  them  stood 
Till  one  old  thankful  heart  did  stay 
The  whirl  of  joy,  with  (<  Let  ns  pray!  ” 


But  oil,  that  quiet,  joyful  night, 

While  Claude  and  his  fair  girlish  wife 
Moved  round  her  with  such  proud  delight ; 

Now  stopped  to  weep  at  her  past  life, 

Now  gently  chafed  the  blistered  feet, 

Anon  between  them  moved  her  seat’; 

Now,  as  they  sat,  the  way-worn  brow 
Was  pressed  against  the  golden  hair 
Or  to  the  blooming  cheek  ;  and  now 
Claude’s  glowing  lips  were  meeting  there. 
Of  Christmas  hearths  there  never  shone 
A  brighter,  dearer,  happier  one. 

I  heard  this  story  when  I  came — 

In  part  from  Claude,  in  part  from  one 
Who  called  upon  her  mother’s  name 
With  deep  remorse  and  burning  shame, 
When  friend  and  hireling  all  were  gone, 
And  he,  who  but  her  gold  had  wed, 
Approached  not  her  infected  bed. 

Oh,  for  that  one  kind  face  that  she 
So  harshly  drove  away ! 

That  sad,  heart-breaking  melody 
Did  haunt  her  while  she  lay. 

I  went  for  Leena,  and  she  came — 

(Hers  the  true  love  that  does  uot  blame, 
That  “  suffers  and  is  kind”) — 

Touched  the  parched  lips,  and  knew  no  fear, 
Though  Death  was  kissing  them  with  her; 

Poured  on  the  fevered  mind 
Tli^dew  of  her  forgiving  love, 

Till  there  Heaven’s  olive  branch  and  dove 
A  resting-place  did  find. 

And  but  one  fancy  did  remain — 

To  hear  that  cradle  hymn  again. 

And  Leena  would  not  that  she  died 
With  her  last  wish  nngratified  ; 

So — trembling,  through  that  silent  room, 
Amid  Death’s  deeply  gathering  gloom — 
Sang  with  calm  lips  her  fav’rite  strain, 

Blit  with  a  heavy  heart  again : 

Full  well  we  knew  the  closing  ear 
Would  lose  it  all  too  soon  ; 

That  she,  as  its  last  notes  drew  n<?ar, 

Was  dying  with  the  tune. 

And  when  the  lullaby  had  ceased, 

We  saw  she  had  been  sung  to  rest. 

Leena  and  I  met  once  again. 

A  pleasant  evening,  after  rain 
And  storm,  her  latter  life  hath  been  ; 

I  watched  her  bend  her  eyes  serene 
Upon  the  Book  of  Life, 

And  asked  myselLcould  they  have  seen 
So  much  of  pain  and  strife? 

And  children’s  children  unto  her 
As  loving  little  teachers  were ; 

A  very  presence  from  above, 

That  simple  woman’s  faith  and  love. 


THE  CHRISTMAS  NUMBERS 
OF  HOUSEHOLD  WORDS 

For  1850  and  1851, 

May  be  had  of  all  Booksellers, 

Price  2d.  each. 


Published  at  the  Office,  No  16,  Wellington  Street  North,  Strand.  Printed  by  Bkassubt  &  Whitefriari,  London. 


