Google 


TeM, hto 3Ta KHHra Aomjia Bac, mbi o6^3aHbi b nepByio onepe^b 6H6jiHOTeKapnM, KOTOpbie ^ojirae toabi 6epemio xpaHHjiH ee. 
CoTpyAHHKH Google oijmjipOBajiH ee b paMKax npoeKTa, u,enb KOTOporo - c^ejiaTb KHHra co Bcero MHpa ^ocTymibiMH nepe3 HurepHeT. 

3Ta KHHra HaxoAHTCJi b o6mecTBemioM aoctouhhh. B o6ih,hx nepTax, K>pH,a,HHecKH, KHHra nepe^aeTcn b o6m,ecTBeHHoe AOCTomuie, 
Kor^a HCTeKaeT cpoK ,neHCTBHa HMymecTBemibix aBTOpcKHx npaB Ha Hee, a Taioxe ecjiH npaBoo6jiaAaTejib caM nepe^aji ee b 
o6mecTBeHHoe AOCTomuie hjih He 3anBHji Ha Hee aBTOpcKHx npaB. TaKHe KHHra - oto kjhoh k nponuiOMy, k coKpoBHiijaM Harnen HCTOpHH 
h KyjibTypbi, h k 3HaHH^M, KOTOpbie 3aHacTyio HHr^e 6ojibine He Hafi^enib. 

B 3TOH H,H(|)pOBOH KOnHH MbI OCTaBHJIH 6e3 H3MeHCHHH BCe pyKOnHCHbie nOMeTKH, KOTOpbie 6bIJIH B OpHTHHaJIbHOM H3AaHHH. IlyCKaH OHH 
6y#yT HanoMHHaHHeM o Bcex Tex pyKax, nepe3 KOTOpbie npouuia 3Ta KHHra - aBTOpa, H3,a,aTejui, 6n6jiHOTeKap5i h npeAbmymnx 
HHTaTejiefi - hto6bi HaKOHeii, nonacTb b Barnn. 


IIpaBHjia iiojibiOBanim 

MbI rOp£HMC5I HamHM COTpy^HHHeCTBOM C 6u6jIHOTeKaMH, B paMKax KOTOporo MbI OIJH(j)pOBbIBaeM KHHra B o6ui,eCTBeHHOM AOCTOHHHH H 
^ejiaeM hx ^ocTymibiMH j\m. Bcex. 3 th KHHra npHHaAJie^KaT BceMy HejiOBenecTBy, a mbi - jihhib hx xpamrrejiH. TeM He MeHee, oijH(j)poBKa 
khht h no^^ep^cKa 3Toro npoeKra ctoat HeMano, h nooTOMy, hto6bi h b ^ajibHeumeM npe^ocTaBjinTb otot pecypc, mbi np e,a, np hhhjih 
H eKOTOpbie Mepbi, hto6bi npe^OTBparaTb KOMMepnecKoe Hcnojib30BaHHe othx khht. O/jHa H3 hhx - 3to TexHHHecKHe orpammeHmi Ha 
aBTOMaranecKHe 3anpocbi. 

Mbi TaK>Ke npocHM Bac: 


• He Hcnojib30BaTb (jjaiijibi b KOMMepuecKHx pejiax. Mbi pa3pa6oTajiu nporpaMMy IloHCKa no KHHraM Google Bcex 
nojib30BaTejieH, nooTOMy, no^cajiyficTa, Hcnojn>3yHTe 3th (jjafijibi tojibko b hhhhbix, HeKOMMepnecKHx ijejiiix. 

• He OTnpaBJiHTb aBTOMaraHecKHe 3anpocbi. He orapaBJiaHTe b CHCTeMy Google aBTOMaranecKHe 3anpocbi jiio6oro po#a. Ecjih 
BaM Tpe6yeTC^[ ^ocTyn k 6ojibihhm oGbeMaM tckctob ^jih Hccjie^OBaHHH b o6jiacra MamHHHoro nepeBO^a, onranecKoro 
pacno3HaBaHH^ TeKCTa, hjih b ^pyrax noxo)KHx ijejiax, CBiDKHTeeb c HaMH. othx ijejieH mbi HacTOUTejibHO peKOMeH^yeM 
HCn0JIB30BaTb HCKJIIOHHTeJIbHO MaTepHaJIBI B o6ui,eCTBeHHOM ^OCTOUHHH. 

• He y^ajiBTb jioroTHnbi h #pyme aTpii6yTbi Google H3 (jjaiijiOB. H3o6pa)KeHmi b Ka^OM (jiaHjie noMeneHbi jiororanaMH Google 
^jbi Toro, hto6bi paccKa3aTb nuraTejuiM o HameM npoeKre h noMOHb hm Hafira ^onojiHHTejibHbie MaTepnajibi. He y^ajiflirre hx. 

• Co6jno#aTb 3aKOHbi Barneii h ^pyrnx CTpaH. B kohchhom HTore, hmchho Bbi HeceTe nojiHyK) oTBeTCTBeHHocTB 3a Baum 
AeHCTBH^ - nooTOMy, no^cajiyncTa, y6e^HTecb, hto Bbi He HapymaeTe eooTBeTCTByiom,He 3aKOHbi Bamen hjih ^pyrax CTpaH. 
HMenTe b BH^y, hto #a)Ke ecjin KHHra 6ouee He HaxoAHTca no# 3am,HTOH aBTOpcKHx npaB b CIIIA, to oto em,e coBceM He 3HanHT, 
hto ee mo^cho pacnpocTpaH^Tb b ,zi,pyrax CTpaHax. K co^KajieHHio, 3aK0H0^,aTejibCTB0 b ctjiepe HHTe jmeKTy bjibho h 
co6cTBeHHOcra OHeHb pa3HOo6pa3HO, h He cymecTByeT ymmepcajibHoro cnocoGa onpeAejiHTb, KaKpa3pemeHO Hcnojib30BaTb 
KHHry b KOHKperaoH CTpaHe. He paccHHTbiBaHTe Ha to, hto ecjra KHHra nonBUJiacb b noncKe no KHHraM Google, to ee mo^kho 
Hcnojib30BaTb r#e h KaK yro^HO. HaKa3amie 3a HapymeHHe aBTOpcKHx npaB MO^ceT OKa3aTbcn oneHb cepbe3HbiM. 


O nporpaMMe 

Hama mhcchh - opraHH30BaTb HH(jx)pMan,Hio bo BceM MHpe h c^ejiaTb ee ^ocTynHOH h nojie3HOH rjw Bcex. Hohck no KHHraM Google 
noMoraeT nojib30BaTejiaM HaHTH khhth co Bcero CBeTa, a aBTopaM h H3AaTeji»M - hobbix HHTaTejien. HtoGbi npOH3Becra noncK no otoh 
KHHre b nojiHOTeKCTOBOM pe^CHMe, OTKpOHTe CTpaHHi^y httpr/Zbooks-c- uuyle . ^uiLL . 


Google 


This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world’s books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 


Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non- commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 


About Google Book Search 


Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 


at jhttp : //books . qooqle . com/ 




3 2044 106 378 847 


0*1 Mtb 


ORCHID LIBRARY 

b OF 



HARVARD UNIVERSITY 



Digitized by Google 


Digitized by 


Digitized by 


Digitized by 



Digitized by 



Digitized by 



Digitized by Google 


ON 


THE VARIOUS CONTRIVANCES 

BY WHICH 

BRITISH AND FOREIGN ORCHIDS 

ABE 

FERTILISED BY INSECTS, 

AND ON THE GOOD EFFECTS OF INTERCROSSING. 


By CHARLES DARWIN, M.A., F.R.S., &c. 


WITH ILLUSTRATIONS. 


LONDON : 

JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET. 
1862. 

The right qf Translation is reserved. 


Digitized by Google 





qu, 

. 03 -^ 


BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 

THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES BY MEANS OF NATURAL 

SELECTION ; or, the Preservation of Favoured Races In the Struggle for life. 
Seventh Thousand. Murray. 


A NATURALIST* S VOYAGE ROUND THE WORLD ; or, a 

Journal of Researches Into the Natural History and Geology of the Countries 
visited during the Voyage of H.M.S. Beagle, under the command of Capt Fitz- 
Roy, R.N. Tenth Thousand. Murray. 

ON THE STRUCTURE AND DISTRIBUTION OF CORAL 

REEFS. Smith, Elder, & Co. 

GEOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS ON VOLCANIC ISLANDS. 

Smith, Eluks, & Co. 

GEOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS ON SOUTH AMERICA. 

Smith, Elder, & Co. 


A MONOGRAPH OF THE CIRRIPEDIA ; with numerous Hlus- 

trations. 2 vols. 8vo. Hardwickb. 


PREPARING FOR PUBLICATION. 

ON THE VARIATION OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS UNDER 

DOMESTICATION. 


LONDON : PRINTED BY W. CLOWES AND SONS, STAMFORD STREET,. 
AND CHARING CROSS. 


Digitized by Google 


CONTENTS. 


Introduction 


Page 1 


CHAPTER I 

Structure of Orchis — Power of movement of the pollinia — 
Perfect adaptation of the parte in Orchis pyramidalis — On 
the insects which visit Orchids, and on the frequency of their 
visits — On the fertility and sterility of several Orchids — On 
the secretion of nectar, and on moths being purposely delayed 
in obtaining it 9 — 53 


CHAPTER II. 

Ophre® continued — Fly and Spider Ophrys — Bee Orphrys, 
apparently adapted for perpetual self-fertilisation, but with 
paradoxical contrivances for intercrossing — The Frog Orchis ; 
fertilisation effected by nectar secreted from two parts of the 
labellum — Gymnadenia conopsea — Greater and Lesser But- 
terfly Orchis; their differences and means of fertilisation — 
Summary on the powers of movement in the pollinia . . 54 — 92 

CHAPTER III. 

Epipactis palustris ; curious shape of the labellum and its apparent 
importance in the fructification of the flower — Cephalanthera 
grandiflora ; rostellum aborted ; early penetration of the pollen- 
tubes; case of imperfect self-fertilisation; fertilisation aided 
by insects — Goodyera repens — Spiranthes autumnalis ; perfect 
adaptation by which the pollen of a younger flower is carried to 
the stigma of an older flower on another plant . . . . 93 — 129 

CHAPTER IY. 

M&laxis palndosa ; simple means of fertilisation — Listen* ovata; 
sensitiveness of the rostellum ; explosion of viscid matter ; 
action of insects ; perfect adaptation of the several organs — 
Listera cordata — Neottia nidus-avis ; its fertilisation effected in 
the same manner as in Listera 130 —156 


Digitized by Google 



IV 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER V. 

Cattleya, simple manner of fertilisation — Masdevallia, curious 
closed flower — Dendrobium, contrivance for self-fertilisation — 
Vandeae, diversified structure of the pollinia; importance of 
the elasticity of the pedicel ; its power of movement — Elasticity 
and strength of the caudicle — Calanthe with lateral stigmas, 
manner of fertilisation — Angracum sesquipedale, Wonderful 
length of nectary — Acropera, perplexing case, a male 
Orchid Page 157— 210 


CHAPTER VI. 

Catasetidee, the most remarkable of all Orchids — The mechanism 
by which the pollinia of Catasetum are ejected to a distance, 
and are transported by insects — Sensitiveness of the horns of 
the rostellum — Extraordinary difference in the male, female, 
and hermaphrodite forms of Catasetum tridentatum — Mor- 
modes ignea, curious structure of flower ; ejection of its pollinia 
— Cypripedium, importance of the slipper-like form of the 
labellum — Secretion of nectar — Advantage derived from insects 
being delayed in sucking the nectar — Singular excrescences on 
the labellum, apparently attractive to insects . . 211 — 285 


CHAPTER VII. 

Homologies of Orchid-flowers — The great modification which 
they have undergone — Gradation of organs, of the rostellum, 
of the pollen-masses — Formation of the caudicle — Genea- 
logical affinities — Mechanism of the movement of the pollinia 
— Uses of the petals — Production of seed — Importance of 
trifling details of structure — Cause of the vast diversity of 
structure for the same general purpose — Cause of the perfection 
of the contrivances in Orcfiids — Summary on insect-agency — 
Nature abhors perpetual self-fertilisation 286 — 360 

Index 361 — 365 


Digitized by Google 



( V ) 


LIST OF WOODCUTS. 


I. Obchis mascula to face 

II. „ „ POLLINIA OP 

III. Orchis pyramidalis 

IV. Moth’s head and proboscis, with attached 

POLLINIA 

V. Ophbys muscifera 


VI. 

» 

ARANIFERA . 

vn. 

It 

APEFERA 

vm. 

II 

ARACHNITES 


IX. Peristylus yiridis 

X. Gymnadenia conopsea 

XI. Habenaria chlorantha 

XII. „ BIFOLIA, POLLINIA OP 

xm. Epipactis palustris 

XIV. „ LATIPOLIA 

XV. Cephalanthera grandiflora 

XVI. Spiranthes autumnalis 

XVn. MALAXIS PALUDOSA 

xvm. Listera ovata 

XIX. Cattleya 

XX. Masdeyallia penestrata 

XXI. Dendrobium chrysanthum 

XXII. Diagram illustrative of the structure of 

the Vande® 

XXIII. POLLINIA OF VANDE® 

XXIV. Calanthe masuca 

Catasetum saccatum 


Page. 

18 

15 

22 

37 

55 

61 

63 

72 

76 

80 

84 

90 

94 

103 

105 

117 

132 

141 

161 

168 

173 

179 

185 

195 

216 

217 


b 


Digitized by Google 



vi LIST OF WOODCUTS. 

Page. 

XXVII. Catasetum tbidentatum 232 

XXVIII. Monachanthus and Myanthus 239 

XXIX. Mormodes ignea 250 

XXX. Mormodes 267 

XXXI. Cypripedium 272 

XXXII. Section op flower op an Orchid 292 

XXXin. Rostellum op Catasetum 322 

XXXIV. Disc op Gymnadenia conopsea 336 

P.S.— I am much indebted to Mr. G. B. Sowerby for the pains 
which he has taken in making the Diagrams as intelligible as 
possible. 


Instruction to Binder. 

Let the Woodcut No. I. face page 18. 


Digitized by Google 



ON THE 


FERTILISATION OF ORCHIDS 
BY INSECTS, 

frc. $c. 


INTRODUCTION. 

The object of the following work is to show 
that the contrivances by which Orchids are 
fertilised, are as varied and almost as perfect 
as any of the most beautiful adaptations in the 
animal kingdom ; and, secondly, to show that 
these contrivances have for their main object 
the fertilisation of each flower by the pollen 
of another flower. In my volume ‘ On the 
Origin of Species ’ I have given only general 
reasons for my belief that it is apparently a 
universal law of nature that organic beings 
require an occasional cross with another indi- 
vidual ; or, which is almost the same thing, that ^ 
no hermaphrodite fertilises itself for a per- 
petuity of generations. Having been blamed 
for propounding this doctrine without giving 

B 


Digitized by Google 



2 


INTRODUCTION. 


ample facts, for which I had not, in that work, 
sufficient space, I wish to show that I have 
not spoken without having gone into details. 

-I have been led to publish this little treatise 
separately, as it has become inconveniently 
large to be incorporated with the rest of the 
discussion on the same subject. And I have 
thought, that, as Orchids are universally ac- 
knowledged to rank amongst the most singular 
and most modified forms in the vegetable king- 
dom, the facts to be presently given might lead 
some observers to look more curiously into the 
habits of our several native species. An ex- 
amination of their many beautiful contrivances 
will exalt the whole vegetable kingdom in 
most persons’ estimation. I fear, however, 
that the necessary details will be too minute 
and complex for any one who has not a strong 
taste for Natural History. This treatise affords 
me also an opportunity of attempting to show 
that the study of organic beings may be as 
interesting to an observer who is fully con- 
vinced that the structure of each is due to 
secondary laws, as to one who views every 
trifling detail of structure as the result of the 
direct interposition of the Creator. 


Digitized by Google 



INTRODUCTION. 


3 


I must premise that Christian Konrad 
Sprengel, in his curious and valuable work, 
‘Das entdeckte Geheimniss der Natur,’ pub- 
lished in 1793, gave an excellent outline of 
the action of the several parts in Orchids; 
for he well knew the position of the stigma ; 
and he discovered that insects were necessary 
to remove the pollen-masses, by pushing open 
the pouch and coming into contact with the 
enclosed sticky glands. But he overlooked 
many curious contrivances, — a consequence, 
apparently, of his belief that the stigma 
generally receives the pollen of the same 
flower. Sprengel, likewise, has partially 
described the structure of Epipactis; but in 
the case of Listera he entirely misunderstood 
the remarkable phenomena characteristic of 
that genus, which has been so well described 
hy Dr. Hooker in the ‘ Philosophical Transac- 
tions ’ for 1854. Dr. Hooker has given a full 
and accurate account, with drawings, of the 
structure of the parts, and of what takes 
place; but from not having attended to the 
agency of insects, he has not fully under- 
stood the object gained. Bobert Brown,* in 

* c Linnaean Transactions,* 1833, vol. xvi. p. 704. 

B 2 


Digitized by Google 



4 


INTRODUCTION. 


liis celebrated paper in the ‘ Linnaean Trans- 
actions,’ expresses his belief that insects 
are necessary for the fractification of most 
Orchids ; but adds, that the fact of all the 
capsules on a dense spike not infrequently 
producing seed, seems hardly reconcileable 
with this belief: we shall hereafter see that 
this doubt is groundless. Many other authors 
have given facts and expressed their belief, 
more or less fully, on the necessity of insect- 
agency in the fertilisation of Orchids. 

In the course of the following work I shall 
have the pleasure of expressing my deep 
obligation to several gentlemen for their 
unremitting kindness in sending me fresh 
specimens, without which aid this work 
would have been impossible. The trouble 
which several of my kind assistants have 
taken has been extraordinary : I have never 
once expressed a wish for aid or for informa- 
tion which has not been granted, as far as 
possible, in the most liberal spirit. 


Digitized by Google 



INTRODUCTION. 


5 


EXPLANATION OF TERMS. 

In case any one should look at this treatise 
who has never attended to Botany, it may 
be convenient to explain the meaning of the 
common terms used. In most flowers the 
stamens, or male organs, surround in a ring 
the one or more female organs, called the 
pistils. In all common Orchids there is only 
one stamen, and this is confluent with the 
pistil forming the Column. The stamens 
consist of a filament, or supporting thread 
(rarely seen in British Orchids), which carries 
the anther ; and within the anther the pollen, 
the male vivifying element, is included. The 
anther is divided into two cells, which are 
very distinct in most Orchids, so much so as 
to appear in some species like two separate 
anthers. The pollen in all common plants 
consists of fine granular powder : but in most 
Orchids the grains cohere in masses, which 
are often supported by a very curious ap- 
pendage, called the Caudicle ; as will hereafter 
be more fully explained. The pollen-masses, 
with their caudicles and other appendages, are 
called the Pollmia. 


Digitized by Google 



6 


INTRODUCTION. 


There are properly in Orchids three united 
pistils, or female organs. The upper part of 
the pistil has its anterior surface soft and 
viscid, which forms the stigma. The two 
lower stigmas are often completely confluent, 
so as to appear as one. The stigma in the 
act of fertilisation is penetrated by long tubes 
emitted by the pollen-grains, which carry the 
contents of the grains down to the ovules, or 
young seeds in the ovarium. 

Of the three pistils, which ought to be 
present, the stigma of the upper one has been 
modified into an extraordinary organ, called 
the Rostellum, which in many Orchids pre- 
sents no resemblance to a true stigma. The 
rostellum either includes or is formed of 
viscid matter ; and in very many Orchids 
the pollen-masses are firmly attached to a 
portion of its exterior membrane, which is 
removed, together with the pollen-masses, by- 
insects. This removeable portion consists in 
most British Orchids of a small piece of 
membrane, with a layer or ball of viscid 
matter underneath, and I shall call it the 
“ viscid disc but in many exotic Orchids the 
portion removed is so large and so import- 


Digitized by Google 



INTRODUCTION. 


7 


ant, that one part must be called, as before, 
the viscid disc, and the other part the pedicel 
of the rostellum, to the end of which pedicel 
the pollen-masses are attached. Authors have 
called that portion of the rostellum which is 
removed the “ gland,” or the “ retinaculum,” 
from its apparent function of retaining the 
pollen-masses in place. The pedicel, or pro- 
longation of the rostellum, to which in many 
exotic Orchids the pollen-masses are attached, 
seems generally to have been confounded, 
under the name of caudicle, with the true 
caudicle of the pollen-masses, though their 
nature and origin are totally different. The 
part of the rostellum which is not removed, 
and which includes the viscid matter, is some- 
times called the “ bursicula,” or “ fovea,” or 
“ pouch.” But it will be found most conve- 
nient to avoid all these terms, and to call the 
whole modified stigma the rostellum — some- 
times adding an adjective to define its shape ; 
and to call that portion of the rostellum which 
is attached to and removed with the pollen- 
masses the viscid disc, together in some cases 
with its pedicel. 

Lastly, the three outer divisions of the 


Digitized by Google 



8 


INTRODUCTION. 


flower are called Sepals, and form the calyx ; 
but, instead of being green, as in most common 
flowers, they are generally coloured, like the 
three inner divisions or Petals of the flower. 
The one petal which commonly stands lowest 
is larger than the others, and often assumes 
most singular shapes ; it is called the lower 
lip, or LabeUum. It secretes nectar, in order 
to attract insects, and is often produced into a 
long spur-like nectary. 


Digitized by Google 



( 9 ) 


CHAPTER L 

Structure of Orchis — Power of movement of the pollinia — 
Perfect adaptation of the parts in Orchis pyramidalis — On 
the insects which visit Orchids, and on the frequency of their 
visits — On the fertility and sterility of several Orchids — On 
the secretion of nectar, and on moths being purposely delayed 
in obtaining it. 

For my purpose British Orchids may be 
divided into three groups, and the arrange- 
ment is, for the most part, a natural one. 
But I leave out of consideration the British 
species of Cypripedium, with its two anthers, 
of which I know nothing. Of these three 
groups the first consists of the Ophreae, which 
have pollinia furnished at their lower ends 
with a caudicle, congenitally attached to a 
viscid disc. The anther stands above the ros- 
tellum. The Ophreae include most of our 
common Orchids. 

First, for the genus Orchis. The reader 
may find the following details rather difficult 
to understand ; but I can assure him, if he 
will have patience to make out this first case, 
the succeeding cases will be easily intelligible. 

b 3 


Digitized by Google 



10 


STRUCTURE OF 


Chap. I. 


The. accompanying diagrams (Fig. I., p. 18) 
show the relative position of the more import- 
ant organs in the flower of the Early Orchis 
(0. mascula). The sepals and the petals have 
been removed, excepting the labellum with its 
nectary. The nectary is shown only in the 
side view (n Fig. A) ; for its enlarged orifice 
is almost hidden in shade in (B) the front 
view. The stigma (.s) is bilobed, and consists 
of, two almost confluent stigmas ; it lies under 
the pouch-formed (r) rostellum. The anther 
( a in B and A) consists of two rather widely 
separated cells, which are longitudinally open 
in front : each cell includes a pollen-mass or 
pollinium. 

A pollinium removed out of one of the two 
anther-cells is represented by Fig. C ; it con- 
sists of a number , of wedge-formed packets of 
pollen-grains (see Fig. F, in which the packets 
are forcibly separated), united together by ex- 
cessively elastic, thin threads. These threads 
become confluent at the lower end of each 
pollen-mass, and compose the (c C) straight 
elastic caudicle. The end of the caudicle is 
firmly attached to the viscid disc (d C), which 
consists (as may be seen in the section, Fig. E) 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. I. 


OECHI8 MASCULA. 


11 


of a minute oval' piece of membrane, with a 
ball of viscid matter on its under side. Each 
pollinium has its separate disc; and the two 
balls of viscid matter lie enclosed together 
(Fig. D) within the rostellum. 

The rostellum is a nearly spherical, some- 
what pointed projection (r Figs. A and B) 
overhanging the two almost confluent stigmas, 
and must be fully described, as every detail of 
its structure is full of signification. A sec- 
tion through one of the discs and balls of 
viscid matter is given (Fig. E) ; and a front 
view of both viscid discs within the rostellum 
(Fig. D) is likewise given. This latter figure 
(D) probably best serves to explain the struc- 
ture of the rostellum ; but it must be under- 
stood that the front lip is here considerably 
depressed. The lowest part of the anther is 
united to the back of the rostellum, as may 
be seen in Fig. B. At an early period of 
growth the rostellum consists of a mass of 
polygonal cells, full of brownish matter, which 
cells soon resolve themselves into two balls of 
an extremely viscid semi-fluid substance, void 
of structure. These viscid masses are slightly 
elongated, almost flat on the top, and convex 


Digitized by Google 



12 


STRUCTURE OF 


Chap. I. 


below. They lie quite free within the ros- 
tellum (being surrounded by fluid), except at 
the back, where each viscid ball firmly adheres 
to a small portion or disc of the exterior mem- 
brane of the rostellum. The ends of the trwo 
caudicles are strongly attached to these two 
little discs of membrane. 

The membrane forming the whole exterior 
surface of the rostellum is at first continuous ; 
but as soon as the flower opens the slightest 
touch causes it to rupture transversely in a 
sinuous line, in front of the anther-cells and 
of the little crest or fold of membrane (see 
Fig. D) between them. This act of rupturing 
makes no difference in the shape of the ros- 
tellum, but converts the front part into a lip, 
which can easily be depressed. This lip is 
represented considerably depressed in Fig. D, 
and its edge is seen, Fig. B, in the front view. 
When the lip is thoroughly depressed, the two 
balls of viscid matter are exposed. Owing to 
the elasticity of the hinder part or hinge, the 
lip or pouch, when not pressed down, springs 
up and again encloses the two viscid balls. 

I will not affirm that the rupturing of the 
exterior membrane of the rostellum never 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. I. 


ORCHIS MASCULA. 


13 


takes place spontaneously; and no doubt the 
membrane is prepared for the rupture by 
having become very weak along defined lines ; 
but several times I saw the act ensue from 
an excessively slight touch — so slight that I 
conclude that the action is not simply mecha- 
nical, but, for the want of a better term, may 
be called vital. We shall hereafter meet with 
other cases, in which the slightest touch or 
the vapour of chloroform causes the exterior 
membrane of the rostellum to rupture along 
certain defined lines. 

At the same time that the rostellum becomes 
transversely ruptured in front, it probably (for 
it was impossible to ascertain this fact from 
the position of the parts) ruptures behind in 
two oval lines, thus separating and freeing 
from the rest of the exterior surface of the 
rostellum the two little discs of membrane, to 
which externally the two caudicles are attached, 
and to which internally the two balls of viscid 
matter adhere. The line of rupture is thus very 
complex, but strictly defined. 

As the two anther-cells open longitudinally 
in front from top to bottom, even before the 
flower expands, as soon as the rostellum is 


Digitized by Google 



14 


FERTILISATION OF 


Chap. I. 


properly ruptured from the effects of a slight 
touch, its lip can be easily depressed, and, the 
two little discs of membrane being already 
separate, the two pollinia now lie absolutely 
free, but are still embedded in their proper 
places. So that the packets of pollen and the 
caudicles lie within the anther-cells ; the discs 
still form part of the posterior surface of the 
rostellum, but are separate; and the balls of 
viscid matter still lie concealed within the 
rostellum. 

Now let us see how this complex mechanism 
acts. Let us suppose an insect to alight on 
the labellum, which forms a good landing- 
place, and to push its head into the chamber 
(see side view Fig. I., A, or front view, B) at 
the back of which lies the stigma (s), in order 
to reach with its proboscis the end of the nec- 
tary ; or, which does equally well to show the 
action, push a sharply-pointed common pencil 
into the nectary. Owing to the pouch-formed 
rostellum projecting into the gangway of the 
nectary, it is scarcely possible that any object 
can be pushed into it without the rostellum 
being touched. The exterior membrane of the 
rostellum then ruptures in the proper lines, 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. I. 


ORCHIS MASCULA. 


15 


and the lip or pouch is most easily depressed. 
When this is effected, one or both of the viscid 
balls will almost infallibly touch the intruding 
body. So viscid are these balls that whatever 
they touch they firmly stick to. Moreover 
the viscid matter has the peculiar chemical 
quality of setting, like a cement, hard and dry 
in a few minutes’ time. As the anther-cells 
are open in front, when the insect withdraws 
its head, or when the pencil is withdrawn, one 
pollinium, or both, will be withdrawn, firmly 
cemented to the object, projecting up like 
horns, as shown (Fig. II.) by the upper figure. 


Fig. II. 



B. 

A. Pollen-mass of 0. mascula, when first attached. 

B. do. do. after the act of depression. 

The firmness of the attachment of the cement 
is very necessary, as we shall immediately see ; 
for if the pollinia were to fall sideways or 



Digitized by Google 


16 


FERTILISATION OF. 


Chap. I. 


backwards they could never fertilise the flower. 
From the position in which the two pollinia 
lie in their cells, they diverge a little when 
attached to any object. Now let us suppose 
our insect to fly to another flower, or insert 
the pencil (A, Fig. II.), with the attached pol- 
linium, into the same or into another nectary : 
by looking at the diagram (Fig. I., A) it will 
be evident that the firmly attached pollinium 
will be simply pushed against or into its old 
position, namely, into its anther-cell. How 
then can the flower be fertilised? This is 
effected by a beautiful contrivance : though 
the viscid surface remains immoveably affixed, 
the apparently insignificant and minute disc 
of membrane to which the caudicle adheres 
is endowed with a remarkable power of con- 
traction (as will hereafter be more minutely 
described), which causes the pollinium to sweep 
through about 90 degrees, always in one 
direction, viz., towards the apex of the pro- 
boscis or pencil, in the course, on an average, 
of thirty seconds. The position of the polli- 
nium after the movement is shown at B in 
Fig. II. Now after this movement and 
interval of time (which would allow the insect 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. I. - 


ORCHIS MASCULA. 


17 


to fly to another flower), it will be seen, by 
turning to the diagram (Fig. I., A), that, if 
the pencil be inserted into the nectary, the 
thick end of the pollinium will exactly strike 
the stigmatic surface. 

Here again comes into play another pretty 
adaptation, long ago noticed by Robert Brown.* 
The stigma is very viscid, but not so visdid 
as when touched to pull the whole pollinium 
off the insect’s head or off the pencil, yet 
sufficiently viscid to break the elastic threads 
(Fig. I., F) by which the packets of pollen- 
grains are tied together, and leave some of 
them on the stigma. Hence a pollinium 
attached to an insect or to the pencil can be 
applied to many stigmas, and will fertilise all. 
I have seen the pollinia of Orchis pyramidalis 
adhering to the proboscis of a moth, with the 
stump-like caudicle alone left, all the packets 
of pollen having been left glued to the stigmas 
of the flowers successively visited. 

One or two little points must still be 
noticed. The balls of viscid matter within 
the pouch-formed rostellum are surrounded 
with fluid; and this is very important, for, 

* ‘ Transactions of the Linnaean Society,’ vol. xvi. p. 731. 


Digitized by Google 



18 


FERTILISATION OF 


Chap. I. 


as already mentioned, the viscid matter sets 
hard when exposed to the air for a very 
short time. I have pulled the balls out of 
their pouches and have found that in a few 
minutes they entirely lost their power of ad- 
hesion. Again, the little discs of membrane, 
the movement of which, as causing the move- 
ment of the pollinium, is so absolutely indis- 
pensable for the fertilisation of the flower, lie 
at the upper and back surface of the rostellum, 
and are closely enfolded and thus kept damp 
within the bases of the anther-cells ; and this is 
very necessary, as an exposure of about thirty 
seconds causes the movement of depression to 
take place; but as long as the disc is kept 
damp the pollinium remains ready for Action 
whenever removed by an insect. 

Lastly, as I have shown, the pouch, after 
being depressed, springs up to its former posi- 
tion ; and this is of great service ; for if this 
action did not take place, and an insect after 
depressing the lip failed to remove either viscid 
ball, or if it removed one alone, in the first case 
both, and in the second case one of the viscid 
balls would be left exposed to the air ; conse- 
quently they would quickly lose all adhesive- 


Digitized by Google 





I 


Digitized by Google 


Digitized by 


Chap. I. 


ORCHIS MASCULA. 


19 


ness, and the pollinia would be rendered abso- 
lutely useless. That insects often remove one 
alone of the two pollinia at a time in many 
kinds of Orchis is certain ; it is even probable 
that they generally remove only one at a 
time, for the lower and older flowers almost 
always have both pollinia removed, and the 
younger flowers close beneath the buds, which 
will have been seldomer visited, have fre- 
quently only one pollinium removed. In a 
spike of Orchis maculata I found as many as 
ten flowers, chiefly the upper ones, which had 
only one pollinium removed ; the other polli- 
niuxn being in place, with the lip of the ros- 
tellum well closed up, and all the mechanism 
perfect for its subsequent removal by some 
insect. . 

The description now given of the action 
of the organs in Orchis mascula applies to 
0. morio, fusca, maculata, and latifolia, and to 
Aceras anthropomorpha.* These species pre- 

* The separation of this genus is evidently artificial. It is a 
toe Orchis, but with a very short nectary. Dr. Weddell has 
described (‘ Annalesdes Sci. Nat.,’ 3° ser. ‘ Bot.,’ tom. xviii. p. 6) 
the occurrence of numerous hybrids, naturally produced, between 
ftis Aceras and Orchis galeata. 


Digitized by Google 



20 


STRUCTURE OF 


Chap. I. 


sent slight and apparently co-ordinated differ- 
ences in the length of the caudicle, in the 
direction of the nectary, in the shape and 
position of the stigma, but they are not worth 
detailing. In all, the pollinia undergo, after 
removal from the anther-cells, the curious 
movement of depression, which is so necessary 
to place them in a right position on the insect’s 
head to strike the stigmatic surface of another 
flower. In Aceras the caudicle is unusually 
short ; the nectary consists of two minute 
rounded depressions ; the stigma is trans- 
versely elongated; the two viscid discs lie so 
close together within the rostellum that they 
affect each other’s outline ; this is worth notice, 
as a step towards the two becoming absolutely 
confluent, as in 0. pyramidalis. Neverthe- 
less, in Aceras a single pollinium is sometimes 
removed by insects, though more rarely than 
with the other species. 

We now come to Orchis pyramidalis, one of 
the most highly organised species which I 
have examined, and which is ranked by several 
botanists in a distinct genus. The relative 
position of the parts (Fig. III.) is here consi- 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. I. 


ORCHIS PYRAMID AUS. 


21 


derably different from what it is in 0. mascula 
and its allies. There are two quite distinct 
rounded stigmatic surfaces (s, s, A) placed on 
each side of the pouch-formed rostellum. This 
latter organ, instead of standing some height 
above the nectary, is brought down (see side 
view B) so as to overhang and partially to 
close its orifice. The ante-chamber to the 
nectary formed by the union of the edges of 
the labellum to the column, which is large 
in 0. mascula and its allies, is here small. 
The pouch-formed rostellum is hollowed out 
on the under side in the middle : it is filled 
with fluid. The viscid disc is single, of the 
shape of a saddle (Figs. C and E), carrying 
on its nearly flat top or seat the two caudicles 
of the pollinia ; of which the two truncated 
ends firmly adhere to its upper surface. Before 
the membrane of the rostellum ruptures, it can 
be clearly seen that the saddle-formed disc 
forms part of the continuous surface of the 
rostellum. The disc is partially hidden and 
kept damp (which is of great importance) by 
the largely over-folded basal membranes of 
the two anther-cells. The upper membrane 
of the disc consists of several layers of minute 


Digitized by Google 





Chap* I. 


ORCHIS PYRAMID ALIS. 


23 


cells, and is therefore rather thick ; it is lined 
beneath with a layer of highly adhesive matter, 
which is formed within the rostellum. The 
single saddle-formed disc strictly answers to 
the two minute, oval, separate discs of mem- 
brane to which the two caudicles of 0. mascula 
and its allies are attached : two separate discs 
have here become completely confluent. 

When the flower opens and the rostellum 
has become symmetrically ruptured, either 
from a touch or spontaneously (I know not 


Description of Fig . III. 


a. anther. 
3.8. stigma, 
r. rostellum. 


L labellum. 

V. guiding plate on the labellum. 
n. nectary. 


A. Front view, with all sepals and petals removed, except the 

labellum. 

B. Side view, with all sepals and petals removed, with the 

labellum longitudinally bisected, and with the near side 
of the upper part of the nectary cut away. 

C. The two pollinia attached to the saddle-shaped viscid disc. 

D. The disc after the first act of contraction, with no object 

seized. 

E. The disc seen from above, and flattened by force, with one 

pollinium removed; showing the depression, by which 
the second act of contraction is effected. 

F. The pollinium removed by the insertion of a needle into the 

nectary, after it has clasped the needle by the first act of 
contraction. 

G. The same pollinium after the second act of contraction and 

depression. 


Digitized by Google 



24 


STBUCTUBE OP 


Chap. I. 


which), the slightest touch depresses the lip, 
that is, the lower and bilobed portion of the 
exterior membrane of the rostellum, which pro- 
jects into the mouth of the nectary. When the 
lip is depressed, the under and viscid surface 
of the disc, still remaining in its proper place, 
is uncovered, and is almost certain to adhere 
to the touching object. Even a human hair, 
when pushed into the nectary, is stiff enough 
to depress the lip or pouch ; and the viscid sur- 
face of the saddle adheres to it. If, however, 
the lip be touched too slightly, it springs back 
and re-covers the under side of the saddle. 

The perfect adaptation of the parts is well 
shown by cutting off the end of the nectary 
and inserting a bristle at that end ; conse- 
quently in a reversed direction to that in 
which nature intended moths to insert their 
probosces, and it will be found that the ros- 
tellum may easily he tom or penetrated, but 
that the saddle is rarely or never caught. 
When the saddle sticking to a bristle together 
with its pollinia is removed, the under lip 
instantly curls closely inwards, and leaves the 
orifice of the nectary more open than it was 
before ; but whether this is of any real use to 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. I. 


OBCHIS PYBAMTDALIS. 


25 


moths which so frequently visit the flowers, 
and consequently to the plant, I will not pre- 
tend to decide. 

Lastly, the labellum is furnished with two 
prominent ridges (l 1 , Fig. A, B), sloping down 
to the middle and expanding outwards like 
the mouth of a decoy ; these ridges perfectly 
serve to guide any flexible body, like a fine 
bristle or hair, into the minute and rounded 
orifice of the nectary, which, small as it is, 
is partly choked up by the rostellum. This 
contrivance of the guiding ridges may be com- 
pared to the little instrument sometimes used 
for guiding a thread into the fine eye of a 
needle. 

Now let us see how these parts act. Let a 
moth insert its. proboscis (and we shall pre- 
sently see how frequently the flowers are 
visited by Lepidoptera) between the guiding 
ridges of the labellum, or insert a fine bristle, 
and it is surely conducted to the minute orifice 
of the nectary, and can hardly fail to depress 
the lip of the rostellum ; this being effected, the 
bristle comes into contact with the now naked 
and sticky under surface of the suspended 
saddle -formed disc. When the bristle is 

c 


Digitized by Google 



26 


PEKFECT ADAPTATION 


Chap. I. 


removed, the saddle with the attached pol- 
linia is removed. Almost instantly, as soon 
as the saddle is exposed to the air, a rapid 
movement takes place, and the two flaps curl 
inwards and embrace the bristle. When the 
pollinia are pulled out by their caudicles, by a 
pair of pincers, so that the saddle has nothing 
to clasp, I observed that the tips curled inwards 
so as to touch each other in nine seconds (see 
Fig. D), and in nine more seconds the saddle 
was converted by curling still more inwards 
into an apparently solid ball. The probosces of 
the many moths which I have examined, with 
the pollinia of this Orchis attached to them, 
were so thin that the tips of the saddle just met 
on the under side. Hence a naturalist, who sent 
me a moth with several saddles attached to its 
proboscis, and who did not know of this move- 
ment, very naturally came to the extraordi- 
nary conclusion that the moth had cleverly 
bored through the exact centres of the so-called 
sticky glands of some Orchid. 

Of course this rapid clasping movement 
helps to fix the saddle with its pollinia upright 
on the proboscis, which is very important ; but 
the viscid matter rapidly setting hard would 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. L 


FOR FERTILISATION. 


27 


probably suffice for this end, and the. real object 
gained is the divergence of the pollinia. The 
pollinia, being attached to the flat top or seat 
of the saddle, project at first straight up and 
are nearly parallel to each other ; but as the 
flat top curls round the cylindrical and thin 
proboscis, or round a bristle, the pollinia 
necessarily diverge. As soon as the saddle 
has clasped the bristle and the pollinia have 
diverged, a second movement commences, which 
action, like the last, is exclusively due to the 
contraction of the saddle-shaped disc of mem- 
brane, as will be more fully described in the 
seventh chapter. This second movement is the 
same as that in 0. mascula and its allies, and 
causes the divergent pollinia, which at first 
projected at right angles to the needle or 
bristle (see Fig. F), to sweep through nearly 
90 degrees towards the tip of the ne6dle (see 
Fig. Gr), so as to become depressed and finally 
to lie in the same plane with the needle. In 
three specimens this second movement was 
effected in from 30 to 34 seconds after the 
removal of the pollinia from the anther-cells, 
and therefore in about 15 seconds after the 
saddle had clasped the bristle. 

c 2 


Digitized by Google 



28 


PERFECT ADAPTATION 


Chap. I. 


The use of this double movement becomes 
evident if a bristle with pollinia attached to 
it, which have diverged and become depressed, 
be pushed between the guiding ridges of the 
labellum into the nectary of the same or another 
flower (compare Figs. A and Q-) ; for the two 
ends of the pollinia will be found to have ac- 
quired exactly such a position that the end of 
the one strikes against the stigma on the one 
side, and the end of the other at the same mo- 
ment strikes against the stigma on the opposite 
side. These stigmas are so viscid that they 
rupture the elastic threads by which the packets 
of pollen are bound together ; and some dark- 
green grains will be seen, even by the naked 
eye, remaining on the two white stigmatic 
surfaces. I have shown this little experiment 
to several persons, and all have expressed the 
liveliest ‘ admiration at the perfection of the 
contrivance by which this Orchid is fertilised. 

As in no other plant, or indeed in hardly 
any animal, can adaptations of one part to 
another, and of the whole to other organised 
beings widely remote in the scale of nature, 
be named more perfect than those presented 
by this Orchis, it may be worth while briefly 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. I. 


FOR FERTILISATION. 


29 


to sum them up. As the flowers are visited 
both by day and night-flying Lepidoptera, I 
do not think that it is fanciful to believe 
that the bright-purple tint (whether or not 
specially developed for this purpose) attracts 
the day-fliers, and the strong foxy odour the 
night-fliers. The upper sepal and two upper 
petals form a hood protecting the anther and 
stigmatic surfaces from the weather. The 
labellum is developed into a long nectary in 
order to attract Lepidoptera, and we shall 
presently give reasons for suspecting that the 
nectar is purposely so lodged that it can be 
sucked only slowly (very differently from in 
most flowers of other families), in order to give 
time for the curious chemical quality of the 
viscid matter on the under side of the saddle 
setting hard and dry. He who will insert a 
fine and flexible bristle into the expanded 
mouth of the sloping ridges on the labellum 
will not doubt that they serve as guides ; and 
that they effectually prevent the bristle or pro- 
boscis from being inserted obliquely into the 
nectary. This circumstance is of manifest im- 
portance, for, if the proboscis were inserted 
obliquely, the saddle-formed disc would become 


Digitized by Google 



30 


PERFECT ADAPTATION 


Chap. I. 


attached obliquely, and after the compounded 
movement of the pollinia they could not strike 
the two lateral stigmatic surfaces. 

Then we have the rostellum partially closing 
the mouth of the nectary, like a trap placed in 
a run for game ; and the trap so complex and 
perfect, with its symmetrical lines of rupture 
forming the saddle-shaped disc above, and the 
lip of the pouch below ; and, lastly, this lip so 
easily depressed that the proboscis of a moth 
could hardly fail to uncover the viscid disc and 
adhere to it. But if this did fail to occur, the 
elastic lip would rise again and re-cover and 
keep damp the viscid surface. We see the 
viscid matter within the rostellum attached to 
the saddle-shaped disc alone, and surrounded 
by fluid, so that the viscid matter does not 
set hard till the disc is withdrawn. Then 
we have the upper surface of the saddle, 
with its attached caudicles, also kept damp 
within the bases of the anther-cells, until with- 
drawn, when the curious clasping movement 
instantly commences, causing the pollinia to 
diverge, followed by the movement of depres- 
sion, which compounded movements together 
are exactly fitted to cause the ends of the 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. I. 


FOB FERTILISATION. 


31 


two pollinia to strike the two stigmatic sur- 
faces. These stigmatic surfaces are sticky 
enough not to tear off the whole pollinium from 
the proboscis of the moth, but by rupturing 
the elastic threads to secure a few packets of 
pollen, leaving plenty for other flowers. 

But let it be observed that, although the 
moth probably takes a considerable time to 
suck the nectar of any one flower, yet the 
movement of depression in the pollinia does 
not commence (as I know by trial) until the 
pollinia are fairly withdrawn out of their 
cells; nor will the movement be completed, 
and the pollinia be fitted to strike the stig- 
matic surfaces, until about half a minute has 
elapsed, which will give ample time for the 
moth to fly to another plant, and thus effect a 
union between two distinct individuals. Lastly, 
we have the wonderful growth of the pollen- 
tubes and their penetration of the stigma, as 
well as the mysteries of germination, though 
these are common to all phanerogamic plants. 

Orchis ustulata* resembles 0. pyramidalis 

* I am greatly indebted to Mr. G. Chichester Oxenden of 
Broome Park for fresh specimens of this Orchis, and for his 


Digitized by Google 



32 


ORCHIS USTULATA. 


Chap. I. 


in some important respects, and differs in 
others. The labellum is deeply channelled; 
this channel, which replaces the guiding ridges 
of 0. pyramidalis, leads to the small trian- 
gular orifice of the short nectary. The upper 
angle of the triangle is overhung by the ros- 
tellum, the pouch of which is rather pointed 
below. Owing to this position of the rostellum, 
close to the mouth of the nectary, the stigma 
is necessarily double and lateral ; but we here 
have an interesting gradation, showing how 
easily the single and slightly lobed medial 
stigma of 0. maculata would pass through 
the bilobed stigma of 0. mascula into that of 
0. ustulata, and thence into the truly double 
stigma of 0. pyramidalis ; for in 0. ustulata, 
directly under the rostellum, there is a narrow 
rim, in direct continuity with the two lateral 
stigmas, and which itself has the character of 
a true stigma, as it is formed of utriculi, or 
true stigmatic tissue, exactly like that of the 
lateral stigmas. The viscid discs are some- 
what elongated. The pollinia undergo the 


never-tiring kindness in supplying me with living plants, with 
numerous specimens, and information regarding many of the 
rarer British Orchids. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. L 


ORCHIS USTULATA. 


33 


usual movement of depression, and in acquir- 
ing this position the two diverge slightly, so 
as to he ready to strike the lateral stigmas. 

The divergence seemed due to the manner 
or direction in which the membrane forming 
the top of the disc contracted obliquely ; but 
I am not sure of this observation. 

I have now- described the structure, as seen 
in fresh specimens, of most of the British 
species of the genus Orchis. All these species 
absolutely require the aid of insects for their 
fertilisation. This is obvious from the fact 
that the pollinia are so closely embedded in 
their anther-cells, and the disc with its ball of 
viscid matter in the pouch-formed rostellum, 
that they cannot be shaken out by violence. 
We have also seen numerous contrivances by 
which the pollinia assume, after an interval 
of time, a position adapted to strike the stig- 
matic surface ; and this indicates that the 
pollinia are habitually carried from one flower 
to another. But to prove that insects are 
necessary I covered up a plant of Orchis morio 
under a bell-glass, before any of its pollinia had 
been removed, leaving three adjoining plants 

c 3 


Digitized by Google 



34 INSECT-AGENCY NECESSARY Chap. I. 

uncovered ; I looked at the latter every morn- 
ing, and daily found some of the pollinia 
removed, till all were removed with the ex- 
ception of the pollinia in one flower low down 
on one spike, and with the exception of those 
in one or two flowers at the apex of each 
spike, which were never removed. I then 
looked at the perfectly healthy plant under 
the bell-glass, and it had, of course, all its 
pollinia in their cells. I tried an analogous 
experiment with specimens of 0. mascula with 
exactly the same result. It deserves notice 
that the spikes which had been covered up, 
when subsequently left uncovered, had not 
their pollinia removed, and did not, of course, 
set any seed, whereas the adjoining plants 
produced plenty of seed ; and from this fact 
I infer that probably there is a proper season 
for each kind of Orchis, and that insects 
cease their visits after the proper season has 
passed, and the regular secretion of nectar 
has ceased. 

I have been in the habit for twenty years 
of watching Orchids, and have never seen 
an insect visit a flower, excepting butterflies 
twice sucking 0. pyramidalis and Gymnadenia 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. I. 


FOB FEBTILISATION. 


35 


conopsea. That bees sometimes visit Orchids * 
I have evidence in a humble and hive bee 
sent me by Professor Westwood, with pollinia 
attached to them; and Mr. F. Bond informs 
me that he has seen pollinia attached to other 
species of bees ; but I feel almost certain that 
bees do not habitually visit the common British 
species of Orchis. On the other hand, I have 
met with several accounts in entomological 
works of pollinia having been observed attached 
to moths. Mr. F. Bond was so kind as to send 
me a large number of moths in this condition, 
with permission, at the risk of the destruction 
of the specimens, to remove the pollinia ; and 
this is quite necessary, in order to ascertain to 
what species the pollinia belong. Singularly 
all the pollinia (with the exception of a few 
from Orchids of the genus Habenaria, pre- 

* M. M4nifere (in Bull. Bot. Soc. de France, tom. i. 1854, 
p. 370) says he saw, in Dr. Gu4pin’s collection, bees collected at 
Saumur with the pollinia of Orchids attached to their heads ; and 
he states that a person who kept bees near the Jardin de la 
Faculty (at Toulouse ?) complained that his bees returned from 
the garden with their heads charged with yellow bodies, of which 
they could not free themselves. This is good evidence how 
firmly the pollinia become attached. There is nothing to show 
whether the pollinia in these cases belonged to the genus Orchis 
or to other genera of the family, some of which I know are 
visited by bees. 




Digitized by Google 



36 


INSECT-AGENCY NECESSARY 


Chap. I. 


sently to be mentioned) belonged to 0. pyra- 
midalis. I here give the list of twenty-three 
species of Lepidoptera, with the pollinia of 0. 
pyramidalis attached to their probosces. 


Polyommatus aiexis. 

Lycaena phkeas. 

Arge galatliea. 

Hesperia sylvanus 
„ linea. 

Syrichthus alveolus. 
Anthrocera filipendulse. 

,, . trifolii.* 

Lithosia complana. 

Leucania lithargyria (two 
specimens). 

Caradrina blanda. 

„ alsines. 

Agrotis cataleuca. 


Eubolia mensuraria (two speci- 
mens). 

Hadena dentina. 

Heliothis marginata (two 
specimens). 

Xylophasia sublustris (two 
specimens). 

Euclidia glypbica. 

Toxocampa pastinum. 

Melanippe rivaria. 

Spilodes palealis. 

„ cinctalis. 

Acontia luctuosa. 


A large majority of these moths and butter- 
flies had two or three pairs of pollinia attached 
to them, and invariably to the proboscis. The 
Acontia had seven pair, and the Caradrina no 
less than eleven pair ! The probosces of these 
two latter moths presented an extraordinary 


* I am indebted to Mr. Parfitt for an examination of this moth, 
which is mentioned in the ‘ Entomologist’s Weekly Intelligencer,* 
vol. ii. p. 182, and vol. iii. p. 3, Oct. 3, 1857. The pollinia were 
erroneously thought to belong to Ophrys apifera. The pollen had 
changed from its natural green colour to yellowy ; on washing it, 
however, and drying it, the green tint returned. 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. I. 


FOB FERTILISATION. 


37 


arborescent appearance (Fig. IY.) The saddle- 

formed discs adhered to TTT 

Fig. Iv. 

the proboscis, one be- 
fore the other, with 
perfect symmetry (as 
necessarily follows from 
its insertion having 
been guided by the 
ridges on the label- 

Inrn^ pqpIi oaddlA Vipqt- Head P ro &»d8° * Aoontta luctoott 

eacn saaaie Dear- With seven pair of the polllnl* of Orchl* 
. . , . n n . . pyramldalls attached to the proboeci*. 

mg its pair oi pollima. 

The unfortunate Caradrina, with its proboscis 
thus encumbered, could hardly have reached 
the extremity of the nectary, and would soon 
have been starved to death. These two moths 
must have sucked many more than the seven 
and eleven flowers, of which they bore the 
trophies, for the earlier attached pollinia had 
lost much of their pollen, showing that they 
had touched many viscid stigmas. 

This list shows, also, how many species of 
Lepidoptera visit the same kind of Orchis. 
The Hatfena also frequents Habenaria. Pro- 
bably all the Orchids provided with spur-like 
nectaries are visited indifferently by many 
kinds of moths. I have twice observed Gym- 



Digitized by Google 



38 


INSECT-AGENCY NECESSARY 


Chap. I. 


nadenia conopsea, transplanted many miles 
from its native home, with nearly all its pol- 
linia removed. Mr. Marshall of Ely* has made 
the same observation on transplanted specimens 
of 0. maculata. I have not sufficient evidence, 
but I suspect that the Neottese and Malaxeae, 
which have not tubular nectaries, are fre- 
quented by other orders of insects. Listera 
is generally fertilised by small Hymenoptera ; 
Spiranthes by humble-bees. Mr. Marshall 
found that fifteen plants of Ophrys muscifera, 
transplanted to Ely, had not one pollen-mass 
removed ; so it was during the first summer 
with Epipactis latifolia planted in my own 
garden ; during the following summer six 
flowers out of ten had their pollinia removed 
by some insect. These facts possibly indicate 
that certain Orchids require special insects for 
their fertilisation. On the other hand, Mal- 
axis paludosa, placed in a bog abopt two miles 
from that in which it grew, had most of its 
pollinia immediately removed. 

The list which follows serves to sljow that 

* ‘Gardener’s Chronicle,’ 1861, p. 73. Mr. Marshall’s com- 
munication was in answer to some remarks of mine on the subject 
previously published in the ‘ Gardener’s Chronicle,’ 1860, p. 528. 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. I. 


FOR FERTILISATION. 


39 


in most cases moths perform *the work of 
fertilisation effectually. But the list by no 
means gives a fair idea how effectually it is 
done ; for I have often found nearly all the 
polling removed ; but generally I kept an 
exact record in exceptional cases alone, as may 
be seen by the appended remarks. Moreover, - 
in most cases, the pollinia which had not been 
removed were, in the upper flowers beneath 
the buds, and many of these would probably 
have been subsequently removed. I have 
often found abundance of pollen on the stigmas 
of flowers which had not their own pollinia 
removed, showing that they had been visited 
by insects ; in many other flowers the pollinia 
had been removed, but no pollen had, as yet, 
been left on their stigmas. 

In the second lot of 0 . morio, given in the 
list, we see the injurious effects of the extra- 
ordinary cold and wet season of 1860 in the 
infrequency of the visits of insects, and, con- 
sequently, on the fertilisation of this Orchid. 
Very few seed-capsules were produced this 
year. 

In 0 . pyramidalis I have examined spikes 
in which every single expanded flower had its 


Digitized by Google 



40 


INSECT-AGENCY NECESSAKY 


Chap. I. 



Digitized by Google 


Chap. I. 


FOR FERTILISATION. 


41 


pollinia removed. The forty-nine lower flowers 
of a spike from Folkestone (sent me by Sir 
Charles Lyell) actually produced forty-eight 
fine seed-capsules ; and of the sixty-nine lower 
flowers in three other spikes, seven alone had 
failed to produce capsules. These facts show 
conclusively how well moths had performed 
their office of marriage-priests. 

In the list, the third lot of 0. pyramidalis 
grew on a steep grassy bank, overhanging 
the sea near Torquay, and where there were 
no bushes or other shelter for moths ; being 
surprised how few pollinia had been removed, 
though the spikes were old, and very many of 
the lower flowers had withered, I gathered, for 
comparison, six other spikes from two bushy 
and sheltered valleys, half a mile on each 
side of the exposed bank ; these spikes were 
certainly younger, and would probably have 
had several more of their pollinia removed ; 
but in their present condition we see how 
much more frequently they had been visited by 
moths, and consequently fertilised, than those 
growing on the much exposed bank. The Bee 
Ophrys and 0. pyramidalis, in many parts of 
England, grow mingled together ; and they did 


Digitized by Google 


, 42 INSECT-AGENCY NECESSARY Chap. I. 

so here, but the Bee Ophrys, instead of being, 
as usual, the rarer species, was here much 
more abundant than 0. pyramidalis; no one 
would readily have suspected that probably 
one chief reason of this difference was, that 
the exposed situation was unfavourable to 
moths, and therefore to the seeding of 0. 
pyramidalis; whereas, as. we shall hereafter 
see, the Bee Ophrys is independent of insects. 

I counted many spikes of 0. latifolia, be- 
cause, being familiar with the 'usual state of 
the closely-allied 0. maculata, I was surprised 
to observe in nine nearly withered ^>ikes how 
few pollinia had been removed. In one instance, 
however, I found O. maculata even worse 
fertilised ; for seven spikes, which had borne 
315 flowers, produced only forty-nine seed- 
capsules — that is, each plant on an average 
produced only seven capsules : in this case the 
plants had grown in greater numbers close 
together, forming large beds, than I had ever 
before observed ; and I imagined that there 
were too many plants for the moths to suck- 
and fertilise. On some other plants, growing 
at no great distance, I found above thirty- 
capsules on each spike. 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. I. 


FOB FERTILISATION. 


43 


Orchis fusca offers a more curious case of 
imperfect fertilisation. I examined ten fine 
spikes from two localities in South Kent, sent 
to me by Mr. Oxenden and Mr. Malden : most 
of the flowers on these spikes were partly 
withered, with the pollen mouldy even in the 
uppermost flowers ; hence we may safely 
infer that no more pollinia would have been 
removed. I examined all the flowers only in 
two spikes, on account of the trouble from their 
withered condition, and the result may he seen 
in the list, namely, fifty-four flowers with both 
pollinia in place, and only eight with one or 
both removed. We see in this Orchid, and in 
O. latifolia, neither of which had been suffi- 
ciently visited by moths, that there are more 
flowers with one pollinium than with both re- 
moved. I casually examined many flowers in 
the other spikes of 0. fusca, and the proportion 
of pollinia removed was evidently not greater 
than in the two given in the list. The ten 
spikes had borne 358 flowers, but, in accord- 
ance with the few pollinia removed, only 
eleven capsules had been formed : five of the 
ten spikes bore not a single capsule; two 
spikes had only one, and one bore as many as 


Digitized by Google 



44 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


Chap. I. 


four capsules. As corroborating what I have 
previously said on pollen being often found on 
the stigmas of flowers which have their own 
pollinia in place, I may add that, of the eleven 
flowers which had produced capsules, five had 
both pollinia still within their now withered 
anther-cells. 

From these facts the suspicion naturally 
arises that 0. fusca is so rare a species in 
Britain from not being sufficiently attractive 
to our moths, and consequently not producing 
a sufficiency of seed. C. K. Sprengel * noticed, 
that in Germany 0. militaris (ranked by 
Bentham as the same species with 0. fusca) is 
likewise imperfectly fertilised, but more per- 
fectly than our 0. fusca ; for he found five old 
spikes bearing 138 flowers, which had set 
thirty-one capsules ; and he contrasts the state 
of these flowers with those of Gymnadenia 
conopsea, in which almost every flower pro- 
duces a capsule. 

An allied curious subject remains to be 
discussed. The existence of a well-developed 
spur-like nectary seems almost to imply the 
* ‘ Das entdeckte Geheimniss,’ etc. s. 404. 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. I. 


SECRETION OF NECTAB. 


45 


secretion of nectar. But Sprengel, a most 
careful observer, thoroughly searched many 
flowers of O. latifolia and of 0. morio, and 
could never find a drop of nectar ; nor could 
Krunitz* find nectar either in the nectary or 
on the labellum of 0. morio, fusca, militaris, 
maculata, and latifolia. I have looked to all 
the species hitherto mentioned in this work, 
and could find no signs of nectar ; I examined, 
for instance, eleven flowers of 0. maculata, 
taken from different plants growing in dif- 
ferent districts, and taken from the most 
favourable position on each spike, and could 
not find under the microscope the smallest 
bead of nectar. Sprengel calls these flowers 
“ Scheinsaftblumen,” or sham-nectar-producers; 
that is, he believes, for he well knew that the 
visits of insects were indispensable for their 
fertilisation, that these plants exist by an 
organized system of deception. But when we 
reflect on the incalculable number of plants 
which have existed for enormous periods of 
time, all absolutely requiring for each genera- 

* Quoted by J. G. Kurr in bis ‘ Untersuchungen tiber die 
Bedeutung der Nektarien,’ 1833, s. 28. See also ‘ Das entdeckte 
Geheimniss,’ s. 403. 


Digitized by Google 



46 SECRETION OF NECTAR. Chap. I. 

tion insect - agency ; when we think of the 
special contrivances clearly showing that, after 
an insect has visited one flower and has been 
cheated, it must almost immediately go to 
a second flower, in order that impregnation 
may be effected (of which fact we have the 
plainest evidence in the large number of pol- 
linia attached to the probosces of those moths 
which had visited 0. pyramydalis), we cannot 
believe in so gigantic an imposture. He who 
believes in this doctrine must rank very low 
the instinctive knowledge of many kinds of 
moths. 

To test the intellect of moths I tried the 
following little experiment, which ought to 
have been tried on a larger scale. I removed 
a few already-opened flowers on a spike of 
0. pyramidalis, and then cut off about half 
the length of the nectaries of the six next 
not-expanded flowers. When all the flowers 
were nearly withered, I found that thirteen 
of the fifteen upper flowers with perfect 
nectaries had their pollinia removed, and two 
alone had their pollinia still in their anther- 
cells ; of the six flowers with their nectaries 
cut off, three had their pollinia removed, and 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. I. 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


47 


three were still in place; and this seems to 
indicate that moths do not go to work in a 
quite senseless manner. 

Nature may be said to have tried, but not 
quite fairly, this same experiment ; for Orchis 
pyramidalis, as shown by Mr. Bentham, * 
often produces monstrous flowers without a 
nectary, or with a short and imperfect one. 
Sir C. Lyell sent me several spikes from Folke- 
stone with many flowers in this condition : 
I found six without a vestige of a nectary, 
and their pollinia had not been removed. In 
about a dozen other flowers, having either 
short nectaries, or with the labellum imperfect, 
with the guiding ridges either absent or deve- 
loped in excess and rendered foliaceous, the 
pollinia in one alone had been removed, and 
the ovarium of another flower was swelling. 
Yet I found that the saddle-formed discs in 
the first six and in the dozen other flowers 
were perfect, and that they readily clasped a 
needle when inserted in the proper place. 
Moths had removed the- pollinia, and had 
thoroughly well fertilised the perfect flowers 
on the same spikes ; so that they must have 
* ‘ Handbook of the British Flora/ 1858, p. 501. 


Digitized by Google 



48 SECRETION OF NECTAR. Chap. I. 

neglected the monstrous flowers, or, if visiting 
them, the derangement in the complex mecha- 
nism had hindered the removement of the pol- 
linia, and prevented their fertilisation. 

From these several facts I still suspected 
that nectar must be secreted by our common 
Orchids, and I determined to examine 0. morio 
rigorously. As soon as many flowers were 
open, I began to examine them for twenty- 
three consecutive days : I looted at them after 
hot sunshine, after rain, and at all hours : I 
kept the spikes in water, and examined them 
at midnight, and early the next morning : I 
irritated the nectaries with a bristle, and ex- 
posed them to irritating vapours : I took 
flowers which had quite lately had their 
pollinia removed by insects, of which I had 
independent proof on one occasion by finding 
within the nectary grains of some foreign 
pollen ;* and I took other flowers which from 
their position on the spike would soon have 
had their pollinia removed; but the nectary 
was invariably quite dry. 

* I may mention that on soaking and separating the laminae 
of the proboscis of a moth, which had the pollinia of a Habenaria 
attached to its head, a surprising number of pollen-grains of some 
other plant were seen in the water. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. I. 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


49 


I still thought that the secretion might 
perhaps take place at the earliest dawn, as I 
have found that the secretion of nectar in 
flowers of other orders ceases and commences 
in the most rapid manner. Consequently, as 
0. pyramidalis is visited (as may be seen in 
the foregoing list) by butterflies and by several 
day-flying moths (such as Anthrocera and 
Acontia), I carefully examined its nectary, 
taking plants from several localities and the 
most likely flowers, as just explained ; but 
the glittering points within the nectary were 
absolutely dry. Hence we may safely con- 
clude that the nectaries of the above-named 
Orchids neither in this country nor in Germany 
ever contain nectar. 

In examining the nectaries of 0. morio and 
maculata, and especially of 0. pyramidalis, I 
was surprised at the degree to which the inner 
and outer membranes forming the tube or spur 
were separated from each other, — also at the 
delicate nature of the inner membrane, which 
could be most easily penetrated, — and, lastly, 
at the quantity of fluid contained between 
these two membranes. So copious is this 
fluid, that, having at first merely cut off the 

i) 


Digitized by Google 



50 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


Chap. I. 


ends of the nectaries of 0. pyramidalis, and 
gently squeezing them on glass under the 
microscope, such large drops of fluid exuded 
from the cut ends that I concluded that the 
nectaries certainly did contain nectar ; but 
when I carefully made, without any pressure, 
a slit along the upper surface, and looked into 
the tube, I found that the inner sin-face was 
quite dry. 

I then examined the nectaries of Gymna- 
denia conopsea (a plant ranked by some 
botanists as a true Orchis) and of Habenaria 
bifolia, which are always one-third or two- 
thirds full of nectar : the inner membrane pre- 
sented the same structure in being covered 
with papillae, but there was a plain difference 
in the inner and outer membranes being closely 
united, instead of being, as with the above- 
named species of Orchis, in some degree sepa- 
rated from each other and charged with fluid. 
Hence I am led to suspect that moths pene- 
trate the lax inner membrane of the nectaries 
of these Orchids, and suck the copious fluid 
between the two membranes. I am aware that 
this is a bold hypothesis; for no case is re- 
corded of nectar being contained between the 




Digitized by Google 



Chap. I. SECRETION OF NECTAR. 51 

two membranes of a nectary,* or of Lepidop- 
tera penetrating with their delicate probosces 
even the laxest membrane. 

We have seen how numerous and beautifully 
adapted the contrivances are for the fertilisar 
tion of Orchids. We know that it is of the 
highest importance that the pollinia, when 
attached to the head or proboscis of an insect, 
should not fall sideways or backwards. We 
know that the ball of viscid matter at the 
extremity of the pollinium rapidly becomes 
more and more viscid, and sets hard in a few 
minutes’ time : therefore we can see that it 
would .be an advantage to the plant if the 
moth were delayed in sucking the nectar, so 
as to give time for the viscid disc to become 
immoveably affixed. Assuredly moths would 
be delayed if they had to bore through several 
points of the inner membrane of the nectary, 
and to suck the nectar from the intercellular 
spaces. This explanation of the good thus 
gained in some degree corroborates the hypo- 

* The nearest approach to this supposed case, yet really dis- 
tinct, is the secretion of nectar in several monocotyledonous plants 
(as described by Ad. Brongniart in BulL Soc. Bot. de France, 
tom. i. 1854, p. 75) from between the two walls (feuillets) which 
form the divisions of the ovarium. But the nectar in this case is 
conducted to the outside by a channel ; and the secreting surface 
is homologically an exterior surface. 

D 2 


Digitized by Google 



52 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


Chap. I. 


thesis that the nectaries of the above-named 
species of Orchis do not secrete nectar exter- 
nally, but into internal cavities. 

The following singular relation supports 
this view more strongly. I have found nectar 
within the nectaries of only five British species 
of Ophrese, namely, in Gymnadenia conopsea 
and albida, in Habenaria bifolia and chlo- 
rantha, and in Peristylus (or Habenaria) 
viridis. The first four of these species have 
the viscid surface of the discs of their pollinia, 
not enclosed within a pouch, but naked, which 
by itself shows that the viscid matter has a 
different chemical nature from that in the 
species of true Orchis, and does not rapidly 
set hard when exposed to the air. But to 
make sure of this I removed the pollinia from 
their anther-cells, so that the upper as well 
as the under surfaces of the viscid discs were 
freely exposed to the air; in Gymnadenia 
conopsea the* disc remained sticky for two 
hours, and in Habenaria chlorantha for more 
than twenty-four hours. In Peristylus viridis 
the viscid disc is covered by a pouch-formed 
membrane, but this is so minute that botanists 
have overlooked it. I did not, when examin- 
ing this species, see the importance of exactly 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. I. 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


53 


ascertaining how rapidly the viscid matter set 
hard; but I copy from my notes the words 
written at the time : “ Disc remains sticky for 
some time when removed from its little pouch.” 

Now the bearing of these facts is clear : if, 
as is certainly the case, the viscid matter of 
the discs of these five latter species is so viscid 
as to serve at once for the firm attachment of 
the pollinia to insects, and does not quickly 
become more and more viscid and set hard, 
there could be no use in moths being delayed 
in sucking the nectar by having to bore 
through the inner membrane of the nectaries 
at several points; and in these five species, 
and in these alone, we find copious nectar 
ready stored for their use in the open tubular 
nectaries. If this relation, on the one hand, 
between the viscid matter requiring some little 
time to set hard, and the nectar being so 
lodged that moths are delayed in getting it; 
and, on the other hand, between the viscid 
matter being at first as viscid as ever it will 
become, and the nectar lying all ready for 
rapid suction, be accidental, it is a fortunate 
accident for the plant. If not accidental, and 
I cannot believe it to be accidental, what a 
singular case of adaptation ! 


Digitized by Google 



( 54 ) 


CHAPTER II. 

Ophre® continued — Fly and Spider Ophrys — Bee Ophrys, 
apparently adapted for perpetual self-fertilisation, but with 
paradoxical contrivances for intercrossing — The Frog Orchis ; 
fertilisation effected by nectar secreted from two parts of the 
labellum — Gymnadenia conopsea — Greater and Lesser 
Butterfly Orchis ; their differences and means Of fertilisation — 
Summary on the powers of movement in the pollinia. 

We now come to those genera of Ophreae 
which chiefly differ from Orchis in having 
two separate pouch-formed rostellums,* instead 
of the two being confluent, as in Orchis. 
First for the genus Ophrys. 

* It is not correct to speak of two rostellums, but the inac- 
curacy may be forgiven from its convenience. The rostellum 
strictly is a single organ, formed from the modification of the 
dorsal stigma and pistil; so that in Ophrys the two pouches 
and the intermediate space together form the true rostellum. 
Again, in Orchis I have spoken of the pouch-formed organ as 
the rostellum, but strictly the rostellum includes the little crest 
or fold of membrane projecting between the bases of the anther- 
cells. This folded crest (sometimes converted into a solid ridge)* 
corresponds with the smooth ridge lying between the two pouches 
in Ophrys, and owes its protuberant and folded condition in 
Orchis to the two pouches having been brought together and be- 
become confluent. This modification will be more fully explained 
in the seventh chapter. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. II. 


FLY OPHRYS. 


55 


Fig. y. 



Ophrys muscifeba, ob Fly Ophrys. 


a. anther. I s. stigma, 

rr. rostellum. | l. labellum. 

A. Flower viewed in front: the two upper petals are almost 

cylindrical and hairy : the two rostellums stand a little in 
advance of the bases of the anther-cells ; but this is not 
shown from the foreshortening of the drawing. 

B. One of the two pollinia removed from its anther-cell, and 

viewed laterally. 

In Ophrys muscifera, or the Fly Ophrys, the 
chief peculiarity is that the caudicle of the pol- 
linium (B) is doubly and almost rectangularly 
bent. The nearly circular piece of membrane, 
to the under side of which the ball of viscid 


Digitized by Google 



56 


FLY OPHRYS. 


Chap. n. 


matter is attached, is of considerable size, and 
plainly forms the s ummi t, of the rostellum, 
instead of forming, as in Orchis, the posterior 
and upper surface ; consequently the attached 
end of the caudicle, after the flower has ex- 
panded, is exposed to the air. As might 
have been expected from this circumstance, 
the caudicle is not capable of that movement 
of depression, characteristic of all the species 
of Orchis ; for this movement is always excited 
when the upper membrane of the disc is first 
exposed to the air. The ball of viscid matter 
is bathed in fluid within the pouch formed by 
the lower half of the rostellum, and this is 
necessary, as the viscid matter rapidly sets 
hard in the air. The pouch is not elastic, and 
does not spring up when the polhnium is 
removed. Such elasticity would have been 
of no use, as there is here a separate pouch 
for each viscid disc ; whereas in Orchis, after 
one pollinium has been removed, the other 
has to be kept covered up and ready for 
action. Hence it would appear as if nature 
were so economical as to save even super- 
fluous elasticity. 

The pollinia cannot, as I have often tried, 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. n. 


FLY OPHRYS. 


57 


be jarred out of the anther-cells by violence. 
That insects of some kind visit these flowers, 
though not frequently, and remove the pol- 
linia, is certain, as we shall immediately see. 
Twice I have found abundant pollen on the 
stigmas of flowers, in which both their own 
pollinia were still in their cells ; and, no doubt, 
had I oftener looked, I should have oftener 
observed this fact. The elongated labellum 
affords a good standing-place for insects : at 
its base, just beneath the stigma, there is a 
rather deep depression, representing the nec- 
tary in Orchis ; but I could never see a trace 
of nectar; nor have I observed any insects, 
often as I have watched these inconspicuous 
and scentless flowers, even approach them. 
On each side of the base of the labellum there 
is a shining knob, with an almost metallic 
lustre, appearing like two drops of fluid ; and 
if I could in any case believe in Sprengel’s 
sham-nectaries, I should believe it in this 
instance. What induces insects to visit these 
flowers I can at present only conjecture. The 
two pointed pouches, covering the viscid discs, 
stand not far apart, and project over the 
stigma : any object gently pushed right against 

d 3 


Digitized by Google 



58 


FLY OPHRYS. 


Chap. IE. 


one of them (in Orchis the push should be 
directed rather downwards) depresses the 
pouch, touches and adheres to the viscid ball, 
and the pollinium is easily removed. 

The structure of the flower leads me to 
believe that small insects (as we shall see in 
the case of Listera) crawl along the labellum 
to its base, and that in bending their heads 
downwards or upwards they strike against 
one of the pouches ; they then fly to another 
flower with a pollinium attached to their heads, 
and there bending down to the base of the 
labellum, the pollinium, owing to its doubly 
bent caudicle, strikes the sticky stigmatic sur- 
face, and leaves pollen on it. Under the next 
species we shall see good reason to believe 
that the doubly bent caudicle of the Fly 
Ophrys serves instead of the usual movement 
of depression. 

That insects do visit the flowers of the Fly 
Ophrys and remove the pollinia, though not 
effectually or sufficiently, the following cases 
show. During several years before 1858 I 
occasionally examined some flowers, and found 
that out of 102 only thirteen had one or both 
pollinia removed. Although at the time I 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. n. 


FLY OPHRYS. 


59 


recorded in my notes that most of the flowers 
were partly withered, I now think that I must 
have included a good many young flowers, 
which might perhaps have been subsequently 
visited ; so I prefer trusting to the following 
observations. 


- 

Number of Flowers. 

— 

Both Polltnia 
or one removed 
by Insects. 

Both Pollinia 
in their Cells. 

In 1858, 17 plants, bearing 57 flowers,) 
growing near each other ) 

30 

27 

In 1858, 25 plants growing in another) 
spot, and bearing 65 flowers .. .. i 

15 

50 

In 1860, 17 plants, bearing 61 flowers 

28 

33 

In 1861, 4 plants bearing 24 flowers] 
from S. Kent, all the previous plants > 
having grown in N. Kent .. .. I 

15 

9 

Total 

88 

119 



We here see that, out of 207 flowers ex- 
amined, not half had been visited by insects. 
Of the eighty-eight flowers visited, thirty-one 
had only one pollinium removed. As the visits 
of insects are indispensable to the fertilisation 
of this Orchid, it is remarkable (as in the case 
of Orchis fusca) that this Ophrys has not been 
rendered more attractive to insects. The num- 


Digitized by Google 







60 


FLY OPHRYS. 


Chap. II. 


ber of seed-capsules produced is proportionately 
even less than the number of flowers visited 
by insects. The year 1861 was extraordi- 
narily favourable to this species in this part 
of Kent, and I never saw such numbers in 
flower ; accordingly I marked eleven plants, 
which bore forty-nine flowers, but these pro- 
duced only seven capsules. Two of the plants 
each bore two capsules, and three other plants 
each bore one, so that no less than six plants 
did not produce a single capsule ! "What are 
we to conclude from these facts? Are the 
conditions of life unfavourable to this species, 
though it was so numerous in some places 
this year as to deserve being called quite com- 
mon ? Could the plant nourish more seed ; 
and would it be of any advantage to it to 
produce more seed ? Why does it produce so 
many flowers, if a larger number of seeds 
would not be advantageous to it ? Something 
seems to be out of joint in the machinery of 
its life. We shall presently see what a re- 
markable contrast another species of this same 
genus, the Ophrys apifera or Bee Ophrys, pre- 
sents in producing seed. 

Ophrys aranifera , or the Spider Ophrys. — I 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. n. 


SPIDER OPHBYS. 


61 


am indebted to Mr. Oxenden for a few spikes of 


this rare species. The 
caudicle (Fig. A) rises 
straight up from the 
viscid disc, and is then 
curved or bent forwards 
in the same manner, hut 
not in so great a degree, 
as in the last species. 
The point of attachment 


Fig. VI. 



B A. 


Ophrys aranlfera. 

A. Pollinium before the act of 

depression. 

B. Pollinium after the act of 

depression. 


of the caudicle to the membrane of the disc is 


hidden within the bases of the anther-cells, and 
is thus kept damp ; consequently, as soon as 
the pollinia are exposed to the air, the usual 
movement of depression takes place, and the 
pollinia sweep through an angle of about 
ninety degrees. By this movement the pol- 
linia (supposing them to have become attached 
to an insect’s head) assume a position exactly 
adapted to strike the stigmatic surface, which 
is situated, relatively to the pouch-formed ros- 
tellums, rather lower down in the flower than 
in the Fly Ophrys. If we compare the wood- 
cut of the pollinium of the present species, or 
Spider Ophrys, after the movement, with that 
of the Fly Ophrys, which is incapable of 


Digitized by Google 



62 


SPIDER OPHRYS. 


Chap. II. 


movement, it is impossible to doubt that the 
permanent rectangular bend near the disc of 
the latter serves the same end as the move- 
ment of depression. 

I examined fourteen flowers of the Spider 
Ophrys, several of which were partly withered ; 
both pollinia were removed in none, and in 
three alone one pollinium had been removed. 
Hence this species, like the Fly Ophrys, appa- 
rently is not much visited by insects. 

The anther-cells are remarkably open, so 
that, in travelling in a box, two pair of pollinia 
had fallen out, and were sticking by their 
viscid discs to the flower. Here we have, as 
throughout nature, evidence of gradation ; for 
though the wide opening of the anther-cells 
is of no use to this species, it is of the highest 
importance, as we shall immediately see, to 
the following species, namely, the Bee Ophrys. 
So, again, the flexure of the upper end of the 
caudicle of the pollinium towards the labellum, 
though of service to the Spider and Fly 
Ophrys, in order that the pollinium, when 
removed by insects and carried to another 
flower, should strike the stigma, is exag- 
gerated in the following species, and serves 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. II. 


BEE OPHRYS. 


63 


for the very different purpose of self-ferti- 
lisation. 

Ophrys api/era . — In the Bee Ophrys we 
meet with widely different means of fertilisa- 
tion as compared with the other species of the 
genus, and, indeed, as far as I know, with all 
other Orchids. The two pouch-formed ros- 
tellums, the viscid discs, and the position of the 


Fig. VII. 



Ophrys apifera, or Bee Ophrys. 


a. anther. 1 1. labellum. 

A- Side view of flower, with the upper sepal and the two upper 
petals removed. One pollinium, with its disc still in its 
pouch, is represented as just falling out of the anther-cell ; 
and the other has fallen almost to its full extent, opposite 
to the hidden stigmatic surface. 

B. Pollinium in the position in which it lies embedded. 


Digitized by Google 



64 


BEE OPHRYS. 


Chap. II. 


stigma, are nearly the same as in other species 
of Ophrys ; but to my surprise, I have observed 
that the distance of the two pouches from each 
other, and the shape of the mass of pollen- 
grains, are variable. The caudicles of the 
pollinia are remarkably long, thin, and flexible, 
instead of being, as in all the other Ophreae, 
rigid enough to stand upright. They are 
necessarily curved forward at their upper ends, 
owing to the shape of the anther-cells ; and 
the pear-shaped masses of pollen lie embedded 
high above and directly over the stigma. The 
anther-cells naturally open soon after the 
flower is fully expanded, and the thick ends of 
the pollinia fall out, the viscid discs still re- 
maining in their pouches. Slight as is the 
weight of the pollen, yet the caudicle is so 
thin, and soon becomes so flexible, that, in the 
course ' of a few hours, they sink down, until 
they hang freely in the air (see lower pollen- 
mass in Fig. A) exactly opposite to and in 
front of the stigmatic surface. When in this 
position a breath of air, acting on the expanded 
petals, sets the flexible and elastic caudicles 
vibrating, and they almost immediately strike 
the viscid stigma, and, being there secured, 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. H. POWER OF SELF-FERTILISATION. 65 

impregnation is effected. To make sure that 
no other aid was requisite, though the experi- 
ment was superfluous, I covered up a plant 
under a net, so that some wind, but no insects, 
could pass in, and in a few days the pollinia 
had become attached to the stigmas ; but the 
pollinia of a spike kept in water in a still room, 
remained free, suspended in front of the stigma. 

Robert Brown * first ' observed that the 
structure of the Bee Ophrys is adapted for self- 
fertilisation. When we consider the unusual 
and perfectly-adapted length, as well as the 
remarkable thinness, of the caudicles of the 
pollinia; when we see that the anther-cells 
naturally open, and that the masses of pollen, 
from their weight, slowly fall down to the 
exact level of the stigmatic surface, and are 
there made to vibrate to and fro by the 
slightest breath of wind till the stigma is 
struck; it is impossible to doubt that these 
points of structure and function, which occur 
in no other British Orchid, are specially 
adapted for self-fertilisation. 

* ‘ Transact. Linn. Soc.’ vol. xvi. p. 740. Brown erroneously 
believed that this peculiarity was common to the genus. As far 
as the British species are concerned, it applies to this one alone 
of the four species. 


Digitized by Google 



66 


BEE OPHRYS. 


Chap. II. 


The result is what might have been antici- 
pated. I have often noticed that the spikes of 
the Bee Ophrys apparently produced as many 
seed-capsules as flowers ; and near Torquay I 
carefully examined many dozen plants, some 
time after the flowering season ; and on all I 
found from one to four, and occasionally five, 
fine capsules, that is, as many capsules as there 
had been flowers ; in extremely few cases 
(excepting a few deformed flowers, generally 
on the summit of the spike) could a flower be 
found which had not produced a capsule. Let 
it be observed what a contrast this case pre- 
sents with that of the Fly Ophrys, which 
requires insect agency, and which from forty- 
nine flowers produced only seven capsules ! 

From what I had seen of other British 
Orchids, I was so much surprised at the self- 
fertilisation of this species, that during many 
years I have looked at the state of the pollen- 
masses in hundreds of flowers, and I have 
never seen, in a single instance, reason to be- 
lieve that pollen had been brought from one 
flower to another. Excepting in a few mon- 
strous flowers, I have never seen an instance 
of the pollinia failing to reach their own stig- 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. II. POWER OF SELF-FERTILISATION. 67 

mas. In a very few cases I have found one 
pollinium removed, but in some of these cases 
the marks of slime led me to suppose that 
slugs had devoured them. For instance, in 
1860, I examined in North Kent twelve 
spikes bearing thirty-nine flowers, and three 
of these had one pollinium removed, all the 
other pollinia being glued to their own stig- 
mas. In another lot, from another locality, 
however, I found the unparalleled case of two 
flowers with both pollinia removed, and two 
others with one removed. I have examined 
some flowers from South Kent with the same 
result. Near Torquay I examined twelve 
spikes bearing thirty-eight flowers, and in 
these one single pollinium alone had been 
removed. We must not forget that blows 
from animals or storms of wind might occa- 
sionally cause the loss of a pollinium. 

In the Isle of Wight Mr. A. Gr. More was 
so kind as to examine carefully a large num- 
ber of flowers. He observed that in plants 
growing singly both pollinia were invariably 
present. But on taking home several plants, 
from a large number growing in two places, 
and selecting plants which seemed to have had 


Digitized by Google 



68 


BEE OPHRYS. 


Chap. II. 


some pollinia removed, he examined' 136 
flowers : of these ten had lost both pollinia, 
and fourteen had lost one ; so here there 
seems at first evidence of the pollinia having 
been removed by their adhesion to insects; 
but then Mr. More found no less than eleven 
pollinia (not included in the above cases of 
removal) with their caudicles cut or gnawed 
through, but with their viscid discs still in 
their pouches, and this proves that some other 
animals, not insects, probably slugs, had been 
at work. Three of the flowers were much 
gnawed. Two pollinia, which had apparently 
been thrown out by strong wind, were sticking 
to the sepals, and three pollinia were found 
loose in his collecting box, so that it is very 
doubtful whether many, or indeed any, of the 
pollinia had been removed by adhesion to 
insects. I will only add that I have never 
seen an insect visit these flowers.* Robert 
Brown imagined that the flowers resembled 
bees in order to deter insects from visiting 

* Mr. Gerard E. Smith, in his ‘ Catalogue of Plants of S. Kent,’ 
1829, p. 25, says : “ Mr. Price has frequently witnessed attacks 
made upon the Bee Orchis by a bee, similar to those of the 
troublesome Apis muscorum.” What this sentence means I can- 
not conjecture. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. IL POWEB OP SELF-FERTILISATION. 


69 


them; I cannot think this probable. The 
equal or greater resemblance of the Fly 
Ophrys to an insect does not deter the visits 
of some unknown insect, which, in that species, 
are indispensable for the act of fertilisation. 

Whether we look to the structure of the 
several parts of the flower as far as hitherto 
described, or to the actual state of the pollinia 
in numerous plants taken during different 
seasons from different localities, or to the 
number of seed-capsules produced, the evidence 
seems conclusive that we here have a plant 
which is self-fertilised for perpetuity. But now 
let us look to the other side of the case. When 
an object is pushed (as in the case of the Fly 
Ophrys) right against one of the pouches of 
the rostellum, the lip is depressed, and the 
large extremely viscid disc adheres firmly to 
the object, and the pollinium is removed. Even 
after the pollinia have naturally fallen out of 
their cells and are glued to the stigma, their 
removal can sometimes be thus effected. As 
soon as the disc is drawn out of the pouch the 
movement of depression commences by which 
the pollinium would be brought in front of an 
insect’s head ready to strike the stigma. When 


Digitized by Google 



70 


BEE OPHRYS. 


Chap. II. 


a pollen-mass is placed on the stigma and then 
withdrawn, the elastic threads by which the 
packets are tied together, break, and leave 
several packets on the viscid surface. In all 
other Orchids the meaning of these several con- 
trivances — namely, the downward movement 
of the lip of the rostellum when gently pushed 
— the viscidity of the disc — the act of depres- 
sion of the caudicle after the disc has been 
removed — the rupturing of the elastic threads 
by the viscidity of the stigma, so that pollen 
may be left on several stigmas — is unmistak- 
ably clear. Are we to believe that these 
contrivances in the Bee Ophrys are absolutely 
purposeless, as would certainly be the case if 
this species is perpetually self-fertilised ? If 
the discs had been small or only viscid in a 
slight degree, if the other related contrivances 
had been imperfect in any degree, we might 
have concluded that they had begun to abort ; 
that Nature, if I may use the expression, seeing 
that the Fly and Spider Ophrys were im- 
perfectly fertilised and produced few seed- 
capsules, had changed her plan and effected 
complete and perpetual self-fertilisation, in 
order that more seeds might be produced. 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. TL POWEB OF SELF-FEBTHJ8ATION. 71 

The case is perplexing in an unparalleled 
degree, for in the same flower we apparently 
have elaborate contrivances for directly opposed 

We have already seen many curious struc- 
tures and movements, as in Orchis pyramidalis, 
which evidently lead to the fertilisation of 
one flower by the pollen of another flower, 
and we shall meet with numerous other and 
very different contrivances for the same object 
throughout the whole great Orchidean Family. 
Hence it is impossible to doubt that some great 
good is derived from the union of two distinct 
flowers, often borne on distinct plants ; but the 
good in the case of the Fly and Spider Ophrys 
is gained at the expense of much lessened 
fertility. In the Bee Ophrys great fertility 
is gained at the expense of apparently per- 
petual self-fertilisation; but the contrivances 
are still present which are assuredly adapted 
to give an occasional cross with another 
individual; and the safest conclusion, as it 
seems to me, is, that under certain unknown 
circumstances, and perhaps at very long inter- 
vals of time, one individual of the Bee Ophrys 
is crossed by another. Thus the generative 



Digitized by Google 



72 


OPHBYS .ARACHNITES. 


Chap. II. 


functions of this plant would be brought into 
harmony with those of other Orchidaceae, 
and, indeed, with those of all other plants, as 
far as I have been able to make out their 
structure. 

Ophrys arachnites . — This form is considered 
by some high botanical authorities as a mere 
variety of the varying Bee Ophrys. Mr. 
Oxenden sent mb two spikes bearing seven 
flowers. The anther-cells do not stand so high 
above the stigma, and do not overhang it so 
much, as in the Bee Ophrys. The mass of 
pollen-grains is generally more elongated. 
The upper part of the caudicle is curved for- 

TTTTT ward, and the lower part under- 

Fig. vm. 7 1 

f goes the movement of depression, 
as in the Spider and Bee Ophrys. 
The caudicle in length compared 
with that of the Bee Ophrys is only 

PoUiniom or ophrys as two to three, or even as two 
(hasimi,®. ^ four ; though thus relatively 

shorter, it is as thick and broad as that of the 
Bee Ophrys : it is much more rigid, so that, 
when the upper end of the pollinium is forced 
out of its anther-cell, the sticky disc remaining 
in the pouch, it can only with difficulty be bent 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. H. OPHRYS ARACHNITES. 73 

down to the stigma. We here see no adapta- 
tion for self-fertilisation. 

The seven flowers sent me had evidently 
long been fully expanded, and the spikes, 
having travelled by railway, must have been 
well shaken, yet in six of the flowers both 
pollinia remained in their anther-cells ; in the 
seventh, both pollinia adhered to the stigma 
with their discs still in their pouches; but 
this flower was much withered, and might 
have been crushed. Of the six flowers, three 
were so old that the pollen was mouldy and 
the petals discoloured ; yet, as just stated, the 
pollinia were still in their cells. After having 
examined so many hundred flowers of the Bee 
Ophrys, I have never seen such a case. Con- 
sidering this important functional difference in 
0. apifera and arachnites, and the lesser differ- 
ences in the structure of their pollinia, which 
are likewise of functional signification, and the 
slight differences in their flowers, it seems to 
me that, until these forms can be shown to be 
connected by intermediate varieties, we must 
rank 0. arachnites as a good species, more 
closely allied to 0. aranifera in its manner of 
fertilisation than to 0. apifera. 

E 


Digitized by Google 



74 


MUSK OBCHIS. 


Chap. II. 


Herminium monorchis . — The Musk Orchis 
is generally spoken of as having naked glands 
or discs, but this is not strictly correct. The 
disc is of unparalleled size, nearly equalling 
the mass of pollen-grains : it is subtriangular 
in shape, unsymmetrical, somewhat resembling 
a helmet, but with one side protuberant : it is 
formed of hard membrane; the hollow base 
alone is viscid, and this rests on and is covered 
by a narrow strip of membrane, which is easily 
pushed away, and answers to the pouch in 
Orchis. The whole upper part of the helmet 
answers to the minute oval bit of membrane 
to which the caudicle is attached in Orchis, 
and which is of larger size and convex in 
the Fly Ophrys. When the lower part of the 
helmet is moved by any pointed object, the 
point so readily slips into the hollow base, and 
is there so firmly held by the viscid matter, 
that it appears adapted to stick to some promi- 
nent part of an insect’s head. The caudicle 
is short and very elastic ; it is attached 
not to the apex of the helmet, but to the 
hinder end ; if it had been attached to the 
apex, the point of attachment would have been 
freely exposed to the air, and would not have 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. n. 


MUSK ORCHIS. 


75 


contracted and caused the movement of de- 
pression in the pollinia when removed from 
their anther-cells. This movement is well 
marked, and is necessary to bring the end of 
the pollen-mass into a proper position to 
strike the stigma. The two viscid discs stand 
wide apart. There are two transverse stig- 
matic surfaces, meeting by their points in the 
middle ; but the broad part of each lies directly 
under the disc. 

The labellum is upturned, making the flower 
almost tubular. As far as I could ascertain, 
an insect, in crawling out of, or into, the flower, 
would be apt to strike against the upper 
and extraordinarily protuberant ends of the 
helmet-like discs, and so displace the inferior 
viscid surfaces, which would adhere to its 
head or body. There is so deep a hollow at 
the base of the labellum as almost to deserve 
to be called a nectary ; but I could not perceive 
any nectar. The flowers are very small and 
inconspicuous, but emit a strong musky smell, 
especially at night. They seem highly attrac- 
tive to insects ; in a spike with only seven 
flowers recently open, four had both pollinia, 
and one had a single pollinium removed. 

E 2 


Digitized by Google 



76 


FROG ORCHIS. 


Chap. II. 


Peristylus (or Habenaria ) viridis. — The 
Frog Orchis has also been described as having 
its viscid discs naked, which is incorrect. The 
Fig. IX. two small pouches stand 

wide apart. The ball of 
viscid matter is oval, and 
does not soon set hard 
its surface is protected 
by a minute pouch. The 
upper membranous sur- 
face of the disc is large, 
and as in the Fly Ophrys 
(0. muscifera) the point 
of junction with the cau- 

I’eristylua viridis, or Frog Orchis* dicle is freely exposed 
Front view of flower. - . , , 

„ anther to the air, and does not 

s. stigma. ,1 IT • ± 

ra. orifice of central nectary. C3/U.S6 tll6 pOlllIllIIIIl tO U li- 
ra' . lateral nectaries. A 

i. labeiium. dergo the often described 

movement of depression. But the caudicles 
are not doubly bent as in the Fly Ophrys. 
The stigmatic surface is small and medial ; 
and though the anther-cases are somewhat 
inclined backwards and converge a little at 
their upper ends, thus affecting the position 
of the pollinia when attached to any object, 
yet it is at first difficult to understand how the 



Digitized by Google 



Chap. n. 


FBOG ORCHIS. 


77 


pollinia, when removed by insects, can strike 
the stigma. 

The explanation is rather curious. The 
elongated labellum forms a rather deep hollow 
in front of the stigma, and in this hollow, but 
some way in advance of the stigma, a minute 
slit-like orifice (n) leads into the short bilobed 
nectary. Hence an insect, in order to suck the 
nectar with which the nectary is filled, would 
have to bend down its head in front of the 
stigma. The labellum has a medial ridge, which 
would probably induce the insect to alight on 
either side ; but, apparently to make sure of 
this, besides the true nectary, there are two 
spots (n) on each side at the base of the label- 
lum, bordered by its prominent edges, directly 
under the two pouches, which secrete drops of 
nectar. Now let us suppose an insect to alight, 
probably on one side of the labellum, and first 
lick up the drop of nectar on either side; from 
the position of the pouches exactly over these 
drops, it would almost certainly get the polli- 
nium of that side attached to its head ; if it 
were then to go to the mouth of the true nec- 
tary, it would assuredly strike the pollinium 
against the stigma. So that we see this unique 


Digitized by Google 



78 


FROG ORCHIS. 


Chap. n. 


case of nectar being secreted from the basal 
edges of the labellum as well as within the 
short medial nectary, replaces the power of 
movement in the pollinia, so general with 
other Orchids, and replaces the doubly bent 
caudicles of the Fly Ophrys. 

As I have described the case, the flower 
would receive its own pollen ; but if the insect 
first exhausted the richer source of nectar 
within the nectary, and afterwards licked up 
the lateral drops, it would not till then get 
the pollinia attached to its head, and, flying 
to another flower, a union would be effected 
between two distinct flowers or two distinct 
plants. If, indeed, the insect were to suck the 
lateral drops first, from what Sprengel has 
observed in the case of Lis ter a,* the insect 
would perhaps be disturbed by the attach- 
ment of the pollinium, and would not go 
on sucking immediately, but would fly to 
another flower, and thus a union between 
distinct individuals would ensue. 

I am indebted to the Rev. B. S. Malden 
of Canterbury for two spikes of the Frog 
Orchis. Several of the flowers had one pol- 

* ‘ Das endeckte Geheimniss der Natur,’ s. 407. 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. IL 


GYMNADENIA CONOPSEA. 


79 


linium removed, and one flower had both 
removed. 

We now come to two genera, namely, 
Gymnadenia and Habenaria, including four 
British species, which really have uncovered 
viscid discs. The viscid matter, as before 
remarked, is of a somewhat different nature 
from that in Orchis, and does not rapidly set 
hard. Their nectaries are stored with nectar. 
With respect to the uncovered condition of the 
discs, the last species, or Peristylus viridis, is 
in an almost intermediate condition. The four 
following forms compose a much broken series. 
In Gymnadenia conopsea the viscid discs are 
narrow and much elongated, and lie close 
together ; in G. albida they are less elongated, 
but still approximate ; in Habenaria bifolia 
they are oval and far apart; and, lastly, in 
Hab. chlorantha they are circular and much 
farther apart. 

Gymnadenia conopsea . — In general appear- 
ance this plant resembles pretty closely some 
species of true Orchis. The pollinia differ 
in having naked, narrow, strap-shaped discs, 
which are nearly as long as the caudicles 


* Digitized by Google 



80 GYMNADENIA CONOPSEA. Chap. U. 

(Fig. X.). When the pollinia are exposed to 
Fig. x. the air the caudicle 

is depressed in from 
30 to 60 seconds ; 
and as its anterior 
surface is slightly 
hollowed out, it 
closely clasps the 

A. Poliinium, before the act of depression. 'QDDGr TTlCnibrS, I101I8 

B. „ after the act of depression, but a a 

before It has closely claBped the disc. g ur f aCe of the disC. 

The mechanism of this movement will be de- 
scribed in the last chapter. The elastic threads 
by which the packets of pollen are bound toge- 
ther are unusually weak, as is likewise the case 
with the two following species of Habenaria : 
this was well shown by the state of specimens 
which had been kept in spirits of wine. This 
weakness apparently stands in relation to the 
viscid matter of the discs not setting hard 
and dry as in Orchis ; so that a moth with a 
poliinium attached to its proboscis might be 
enabled to visit several flowers and not have 
the whole poliinium dragged off by the first 
stigma which was struck. The two strap- 
shaped discs lie close together, and form the 
roof of the mouth of the nectary. They are 



Gymnadenia conopsea. 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. II. 


GYMNADENIA C0N0PSEA. 


81 


not enclosed, as in Orcliis, by a lower lip or 
pouch, so that the structure of the rostellum 
is simpler. When we come to treat of the 
homologies of the rostellum we shall see that 
this difference is due to a small change, namely, 
to the lower and exterior cells of the rostel- 
lum resolving themselves into viscid matter; 
whereas in Orchis the exterior surface retains 
its early cellular or membranous condition. 

As the two viscid discs form the roof of the 
mouth of the nectary, and are thus brought 
down near to the labellum, the two stigmas, 
instead of being confluent and standing beneath 
the rostellum, are necessarily lateral and sepa- 
rate. They form two protuberant, almost 
horn-shaped, processes on each side of the 
mouth of the nectary. That their surfaces are 
really stigmatic I ascertained by finding them 
deeply penetrated by a multitude of pollen- 
tubes. As in the case of 0. pyramidalis, it is 
a pretty little experiment to push a fine bristle 
into the narrow mouth of the nectary, and to 
observe how certainly the narrow elongated 
viscid discs, forming the roof, stick to the bristle. 
When the bristle is withdrawn, the pollinia 
are withdrawn, adhering to its upper side, and 

E 3 


Digitized by Google 



82 GYMNADENIA C0N0PSEA. Chap. II. 

slightly divergent owing apparently to their 
original position in the anther-cells. They then 
quickly depress themselves till they lie in the 
same plane with the bristle ; and if the bristle, 
held in the same relative position, be now in- 
serted into the nectary of another flower, the 
two ends of the pollinia accurately strike the 
two stigmatic surfaces lying close on each side 
of the mouth of the nectary. I am, however, 
not quite sure that I understand the cause of the 
divergence of the pollinia, for I find that moths 
often remove one pollinium alone ; and this 
fact leads me to suspect that they insert their 
probosces obliquely into the nectary. 

The flowers smell sweet, and the abundant 
nectar always contained in their nectaries 
seems highly attractive to Lepidoptera, for the 
pollinia are soon and effectually removed. 
For instance, in a spike with forty-five open 
flowers, forty-one had their pollinia removed, 
or had pollen left on their stigmas : in another 
spike with fifty-four flowers, thirty-seven had 
both pollinia, and fifteen had one pollinium, 
removed ; so that only two flowers in the 
whole spike had neither pollinium removed. 

Gymnadenia albida . — The structure of this 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. II. 


LARGE BUTTERFLY ORCHIS. 


83 


flower resembles in most points that of the 
last species ; but, owing to the upturning of 
the labellum, it is rendered almost tubular. 
The naked glands are minute, but elongated 
and approximate. The stigmatic surfaces are 
partly lateral and divergent. The nectary is 
short, and full of nectar. Minute as the flowers 
are, they seem highly attractive to insects : of 
the eighteen lower flowers in one spike, ten 
had both pollinia, and seven had one, removed ; 
in some other and older spikes all the pollinia 
had been removed, except from two or three 
flowers at the summit. 

Habenaria chlorantha . — The pollinia of the 
Large Butterfly Orchis differ considerably from 
those of the species hitherto mentioned. The 
two anther-cells are separated from each other 
by a wide space of connective membrane ; the 
pollinia slope backwards (Fig. XI.), and the 
viscid discs are brought out in advance of the 
stigmatic surface, and front each other. In 
relation to this position of the discs, the cau- 
dicles and pollen-masses are much elongated. 
The viscid disc is circular, and, in the early 
bud, consists of a mass of cells, of which the 
exterior layers (answering to the lip or pouch 


Digitized by Google 



84 


LARGE BUTTERFLY ORCHIS. 


Chap. II. 



a a. anther. 
d. disc. 
s. stigma. 


n. nectary. 

ri . orifice of nectary. 

Z. labellum. 


A. Flower viewed in front, with all the sepals and petals removed 

except the labellum with its nectary. 

B. A pollinium. (This has hardly a sufficiently elongated ap- 

pearance.) The drum-like pedicel is hidden behind the 
disc. 

C. Diagram, giving a section through the viscid disc, which is 

formed of an upper membrane with a layer of viscid 
matter beneath, and through the drum-like pedicel, and 
through the lower end of the caudicle. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. n. 


LARGE BUTTERFLY ORCHIS. 


85 


in Orchis) resolve themselves into adhesive 
matter. This matter has the property of re- 
maining adhesive for at least twenty-four hours 
after the pollinium has been removed from its 
cell. The disc, externally covered with a 
thick layer of adhesive matter (see Sect. C, 
which stands so that the layer of viscid matter 
is below), is produced on its opposite and em- 
bedded side into a short drum-like pedicel. 
This pedicel is continuous with the mem- 
branous portion of the disc, and is formed of 
the same tissue. At the embedded end of the 
pedicel, the caudicle of the pollinium is attached 
in a transverse direction, and its extremity is 
prolonged, as a bent rudimentary tail, just 
beyond the drum. The caudicle is thus united 
to the viscid disc in a very different manner, 
and in a plane at right angles, to what occurs 
in other British Orchids. In the short drum- 
like pedicel, we see a small development of 
the long pedicel of the rostellum, which in 
many exotic Yandese is so conspicuous, and 
which connects the viscid disc with the true 
caudicle of the pollinium. 

The drum-like pedicel is of the highest 
importance, not only by rendering the viscid 


Digitized by Google 



86 


LARGE BUTTERFLY ORCHIS. 


Chap. II. 


disc more prominent and more likely to stick 
to the face of an insect whilst inserting its 
proboscis into the nectary beneath the stigmat, 
but on account of its power of contraction. 
The pollinia lie inclined backwards in their 
cells (see Fig. A), above and some way on 
each side of the stigmatic surface ; if attached 
in this position to the head of an insect, the 
insect might visit any number of flowers, and 
no pollen could be left on the stigma. But 
observe what takes place: in a few seconds 
after the inner end of the drum-like pedicel is 
removed from its imbedded position and ex- 
posed to the air, one side of the drum con- 
tracts, and this contraction draws the thick 
end of the pollinium inwards, so that the cau- 
dicle and the viscid surface of the disc are no 
longer parallel, as they were at first, and as 
they are represented in the section C. At the 
same time the drum rotates through nearly a 
quarter of a circle, and this moves the caudicle 
downwards, like the hand of a clock, depressing 
the thick end of the pollinium or mass of pollen- 
grains. After this double movement, the right- 
hand disc, for instance, being supposed to be 
affixed to the right side of an insect’s face, 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. H. LARGE BUTTERFLY ORCHIS. 87 

• 

when the insect, after a short interval of time, 
visits another flower, the pollen-bearing end 
of the pollinitun will have moved downwards 
and inwards, and will now infallibly strike the 
viscid surface of the stigma, situated in the 
middle beneath and between the two anther- 
cells. 

The little rudimentary tail of the caudicle 
projecting beyond the drum-like pedicel is an 
interesting' point to those who believe in the 
modification of species; for it shows us that 
the disc has moved a little inwards, and that 
primordially the two discs, stood even still 
further in advance of the stigma than they do 
at present. It shows us that the parent-form 
approached a little more closely in structure to 
that extraordinary Orchid the Bonatia speciosa 
of the Cape of Good Hope. 

The remarkable length of the nectary, con- 
taining much nectar, the white colour of the 
conspicuous flower, and the strong sweet odour 
emitted at night, all show that this plant de- 
pends for its fertilisation on the larger nocturnal 
Lepidoptera. I have often found spikes with 
almost all the pollinia removed. From the 
lateral position and distance of the two viscid 


Digitized by Google 



88 LARGE BUTTERFLY ORCHIS. Chap. II. 

discs from each other, the same moth would 
generally remove only one pollinium at a 
time ; and in a spike which had not as yet 
been much visited, three flowers had both 
pollinia, and eight flowers had only one polli- 
nium, removed. From the position of the 
discs it might have been anticipated that they 
would adhere to the side of the head or face of 
moths ; and Mr. F. Bond sent me a specimen 
of Hadena dentina with one eye covered and 
blinded by a disc, and a specimen of Plusia 
v. aureum with a disc attached to the edge of 
the eye. Although the discs are so extremely 
adhesive that almost all the pollinia of a bunch 
of flowers, when carried in the hand, will be 
removed by the shaken petals and sepals touch- 
ing the discs, yet it is certain that moths, per- 
haps the smaller species, often visit these flowers 
without removing the pollinia; for on care- 
fully examining the discs of a large number 
of pollinia still in their cells I found minute 
Lepidopterous scales glued to. them. 

Habenaria bifolia , or Lesser Butterfly Orchis. 
— I am aware that this form and the last are 
considered by Mr. Bentham and some other 
botanists as mere varieties of each other ; for 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. n. 


LESSER BUTTERFLY ORCHIS. 


89 


it is said that intermediate gradations occur in 
the position of the viscid discs. But we shall 
immediately see that the two forms differ in a 
great number of characters, not to mention the 
differences in general aspect and in the stations 
inhabited; with which we are not here con- 
cerned. Should these two forms be hereafter 
proved to graduate at the present day into 
each other, it would be a remarkable case of 
variation ; and I, for one, should be as much 
pleased as surprised at the fact, for these two 
forms certainly differ from each other more 
than do most species of the genus Orchis. 

The viscid discs of the Lesser Butterfly 
Orchis are oval ; they face each other, and 
stand far closer together than in the last 
species ; so much so, that in the bud, when 
their surfaces are cellular, they almost touch. 
They are not placed so low down relatively to 
the mouth df the nectary. The viscid matter 
is of a somewhat different chemical nature, as 
shown by its much greater viscidity, when 
moistened, after having been long dried, or 
after being kept in weak spirits. The drum- 
like pedicel can hardly be said to be present, 
and is represented by a longitudinal ridge, 


Digitized by Google 



90 LESSER BUTTERFLY ORCHIS. Chap. II. 

truncated at the end where the caudicle is 
attached, and there is hardly a vestige of the 
rudimentary tail of the caudicle. In Fig. XII. 
the discs of both species, of the proper pro- 
portional sizes, are represented as seen from 

vertically above. The 
pollinia, after removal 
from their cells, undergo 
the same movements ; 
a but the inward move- 
B ' “SS? ment seemed to be 
a . DiUf^audk^'^ 1 mbLria greater than in the last 

bifolia, seen from above. . , „ 

species, in conformity 
with the position of the stigma. In both 
forms the movement is well seen by removing, 
with a pair of pincers, a pollinium by the 
thick end, and holding it motionless under the 
microscope, when the plane of the viscid disc 
will be seen to move through an angle of at 
least 45°. The caudicles of the Lesser Butter- 
fly Orchis are relatively very much shorter 
than in the other species; the little packets 
of pollen are shorter, whiter, and, in a mature 
flower, separate much more readily from each 
other. Lastly, the stigmatic surface is differ- 
ently shaped, being more plainly tripartite, 


Fig. XII. 



Digitized by Google 



Citap. EL 


LESSEE BUTTERFLY ORCHIS. 


91 


with two lateral prominences, situated beneath 
the viscid discs. These prominences contract 
the mouth of the nectary, making it sub- 
quadrangular. Hence I cannot doubt that the 
Larger and Lesser Butterfly Orchids are dis- 
tinct species, masked by close external simi- 
larity. 

As soon as I had examined the Lesser 
Butterfly Orchis, I felt convinced, from the 
position of the viscid discs, that it would be 
fertilised in a different manner from the 
Larger Butterfly Orchis ; and now, owing to 
the kindness of Mr. F. Bond, I have examined 
two moths, namely, Agrotis segetum and 
Anaitis plagiata, one with three pollinia, and 
the other with five pollinia, attached, not to _ 
the side of the face as in the last species, but 
to the base of the proboscis. I may remark 
that the pollinia of these two species of Habe- 
naria, when attached to moths, could be dis- 
tinguished at a glance. 

We have now finished with the Ophreae ; 
but before passing on to the next Division, I 
will recapitulate the chief facts on the move- 
ments of the pollinia, all due to the nicely 


Digitized by Google 



92 


RECAPITULATION. 


Chap. II. 


regulated contraction of that small portion of 
membrane (together with the pedicel in the 
case of Habenaria) lying between the layer or 
ball of adhesive matter and the extremity of 
the caudicle. In most of the species of Orchis 
the stigma lies directly beneath the anther- 
cells, and the pollinia simply move vertically 
downwards. In Orchis pyramidalis and in 
Gymnadenia there are two lateral and inferior 
stigmas, and the pollinia move downwards and 
outwards, diverging at the proper angle (by a 
different mechanism in the two cases), so as to 
strike the two lateral stigmas ; in Habenaria 
the stigmatic surface lies beneath and between 
the two widely separated anther-cells, and the 
. pollinia here again move downwards, but, at 
the same time, converge. A poet might ima- 
gine, that whilst the pollinia are borne from 
flower to flower through the air, adhering to a 
moth’s body, they voluntarily and eagerly place 
themselves, in each case, in that exact position 
in which alone they can hope to gain their 
wish and perpetuate their race. 


Digitized by Google 



( 93 ) 


CHAPTER III. 

Epipactis palustris ; curious shape of the labellum and its apparent 
importance in the fructification of the flower — Cephalanthera 
grandiflora ; rostellum aborted ; early penetration of the pollen- 
tubes ; case of imperfect self-fertilisation ; fertilisation aided 
by insects — Goodyera repens — Spiranthes autumnalis; per- 
fect adaptation by which the pollen of a younger flower is 
carried to tbe stigma of an older flower on another plant. 

We now come to another great tribe of British 
Orchids, the Neottese, which have a free anther 
standing behind the stigma : their pollen-grains 
are tied together by fine elastic threads, which 
partially cohere and project at the upper end 
of the pollen-mass, and are attached (with 
some exceptions) to the back of the rostellum. 
Consequently the pollen-masses have no true 
and distinct caudicles. In one genus alone 
(Goodyera) the pollen-grains are collected into 
packets as in Orchis. Epipactis and Goodyera 
agree pretty closely in their manner of ferti- 
lisation with the Ophrese, hut are more simply 
organised : Spiranthes comes under the same 
category, but in some respects is differently 
modified. Cephalanthera seems to be a de- 


Digitized by Google 



EPIPACTIS PALU8TRIS. 

a. anther, with the two open auricle, referred to in a 

cells seen in the front future chapter, 

view D. r. rostellum. s. stigma. 

a\ rudimentary anther, or l. labellum. 

A. Side view of flower (with the lower sepals alone removed) in 
its natural position. • -q gj ( j e 


y Google 


Chap. HE. 


THE MARSH EPIPACTIS. 


95 


graded or simplified Epipactis ; as it does not 
possess a rostellum — that eminently charac- 
teristic organ — and as its pollen-grains are 
single, it bears almost the same sort of relation 
to other Orchids, which a wingless bird does 
to other birds. 

Epipactis palustris * — The lower part of the 
stigma is bilobed and projects in front of the 
column (see s in the side and front views, C, D, 
Fig. XIII.). On its square summit a single, 
small, nearly globular rostellum is seated. The 
anterior face of the rostellum (r, C, D) projects 
a little beyond the surface of the upper part of 
the stigma, and this is of importance. In the 
early bud the rostellum consists of a friable 
mass of cells, with the exterior surface rough : 


B. Side view of flower, with the distal portion of the labellum 

depressed, as if by the weight of an insect. 

C. Side view of flower, with all the sepals and petals removed, 

excepting the labellum, of which the near side has been 
cut away ; the massive anther is seen to be of large size. 

D. Front view of column, with all the sepals and petals removed : 

the rostellum has shrunk down a little in the specimen 
figured, and ought to have stood higher, so as to hide 
more of the anther-cells. 


* I am much indebted to Mr. A. G. More, of Bembridge in 
the Isle of Wight, for repeatedly sending me fresh specimens of 
this beautiful Orchis. 


Digitized by Google 



96 


THE MARSH EPIPACTIS. 


Chap. HI. 


these superficial cells undergo a great change 
during development, and become converted 
into a soft, smooth, highly elastic membrane 
or tissue, so excessively tender that it can be 
penetrated by a human hair ; when thus pene- 
trated, or when slightly rubbed, the surface . 
becomes milky and in some degree viscid, so 
that the pollen-grains adhere to it. In some 
cases, though I observed this more plainly in 
E. latifolia, the surface of the rostellum appa- 
rently becomes milky and viscid without hav- 
ing been touched. This exterior soft elastic 
membrane forms a cap to the rostellum, and 
is internally lined with a layer of much more 
adhesive matter ; this matter, when exposed to 
the air, dries in from five to ten minutes. By 
a slight upward and backward push with any 
object, the whole cap, with its viscid lining, 
is removed with the greatest ease ; and a 
minute square stump, the basis of the ros- 
tellum, alone is left on the summit of the 
stigma. 

In the bud-state the anther stands quite free 
behind the rostellum and stigma ; it opens 
longitudinally whilst the flower is still unex- 
panded, and exposes the two oval pollen-masses, 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. ffl. THE MABSH EPIPACTI8. 97 

which are now loose in their cells. The pollen 
consists of spherical granules, cohering in 
fours, but not affecting each other’s shapes; 
and these compound grains are tied together 
by fine elastic threads. These threads are 
collected into bundles, extending longitudinally 
along the middle line of the front face of each 
pollinium, where it comes into contact with the 
back of the uppermost part of the rostellum. 
From the number of these threads this middle 
line looks brown, and each pollen-mass here 
shows a tendency to be divided longitudinally 
into two halves : in all these respects there is 
a close general resemblance to the pollinia of 
the Ophrese. 

The line where the parallel threads are the 
most numerous is the line of greatest strength ; 
elsewhere the pollinia are extremely friable, 
so that masses of pollen can be easily broken 
off. In the bud-state the rostellum is curved a 
little backwards, and is pressed against the 
recently-opened anther ; and the above-men- 
tioned slightly projecting bundles of threads 
become firmly attached to the posterior flap 
of the membranous cap of the rostellum. 
The point of attachment lies a little beneath 

F 


Digitized by Google 



98 


THE MARSH EPIPACTIS. 


Chap. m. 


the summit of the pollen-masses ; but the 
exact point is somewhat variable, for I have 
met with specimens in which the attachment 
was one-fifth of the length of the pollen- 
masses from their summits. This variability is 
so far interesting, as it is a step leading to the 
structure of the Ophrese, in which the confluent 
threads, or caudicles, spring from the lower 
ends of the pollen-masses. After the pollinia 
are firmly attached by their threads to the 
back of the rostellum, the rostellum bends 
a little forwards, and this partly draws the 
pollinia out of their anther-cells. The upper 
end of the anther consists of a blunt, solid 
point, not including pollen; this blunt point 
projects slightly beyond the face of the ros- 
tellum, which circumstance, as we shall see, is 
important. 

The flowers stand out (Fig. A) horizontally 
from the stem. The labellum is curiously 
shaped, as may be seen in the drawings : the 
distal half, which projects beyond the other 
petals and forms an excellent landing-place for 
insects, is joined to the basal half by a narrow 
hinge, and naturally (Fig. A) is turned a little 
upwards, so that its edges pass within the 


• ^ 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. HI. THE MABflH EPEPACTI8. 99 

edges of the basal portion. So flexible and 
elastic is the hinge that the weight of even 
a fly, as Mr. More informs me, depresses the 
distal portion ; it is represented in Fig. B in 
this state ; but when the weight is removed it 
instantly springs up to its former (Fig. A) and 
ordinary position, and with its curious medial 
ridges partly closes the entrance into the flower. 
The basal portion of the labellum forms a cup, 
which at the proper time is filled with nectar. 

Now let us see how all the parts, which I 
have been obliged to describe in detail, act. 
When I first examined these flowers I was 
much perplexed : trying in the same way as I 
should have done with a true Orchis, I slightly 
pushed the protuberant rostellum downwards, 
and it was very easily ruptured ; some of the 
viscid matter was withdrawn, but the pollinia 
remained in their cells. Reflecting on the 
structure of the flower, it occurred to me that 
an insect in entering to suck the nectar, from 
depressing the distal portion of the labellum, 
would not touch the rostellum ; but that, when 
within the flower, from the springing up of 
this distal half of the labellum, it would be 
almost compelled to back out parallel to the 

F 2 


Digitized by Google 



100 


THE MARSH EPEPACTI8. 


Chap. m. 


stigma by tbe higher part of the flower. I 
then brushed the rostellum lightly upwards 
and backwards with the end of a feather and 
other such objects ; and it was pretty to see 
how easily the membranous cap of the rostellum 
came off, and how well, from its great elasti- 
city, it fitted the object, whatever its shape 
might be, and how firmly it clung to it from 
the viscidity of its under surface. Together 
with the cap large masses of pollen, adhering 
by the threads, were necessarily withdrawn. 

Nevertheless the pollen-masses were not 
nearly so cleanly removed as those which had 
been naturally removed by insects. I tried 
dozens of flowers, always with the same im- 
perfect result. It then occurred to me that an 
insect in backing out of the flower would natu- 
rally push with some part of its body against 
the blunt and projecting upper end of the 
anther which overhangs the stigmatic surface. 
Accordingly I so held the brush that, whilst 
brushing upwards against the rostellum, I 
pushed against the blunt solid end of the 
anther (see Sect. C) ; this at once eased the 
pollinia, and they were withdrawn in an entire 
state. At last I understood the mechanism of j 
the flower. j 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. HL 


THE MAR SH EPIPACTIS. 


101 


The large anther stands nearly parallel and 
behind the stigma (Sect. C), so that the polli- 
nia when withdrawn by an insect would natu- 
rally adhere to its body in a position fitted to 
strike, as soon as it visited another flower, the 
almost parallel stigmatic surface. Hence we 
have not here, or in any Neotteae, that move- 
ment of depression so common with the pollinia 
of the Ophreae. When an insect with the pol- 
linia attached to its back or head enters another 
flower, the' easy depression of the distal portion 
of the labellum probably plays an important 
part; for the pollen-masses are extremely 
friable, and, if struck against the tips of the 
petals in the act of entering, much of the pollen 
would be lost ; but as it is, an open gangway 
is offered, and the viscid stigma, with its lower 
part protuberant, lying in front, is the first 
object against which the pollen-masses pro- 
jecting forwards from the insect’s back would 
naturally strike.* I did not count the flowers, 

* As it is quite possible that I may have overrated the 
importance of the peculiar structure of the labellum, I asked 
Mr. A. G. More to remove the distal half of the labellum from 
some flowers before they had expanded, but I was too late in 
my application. He was able to try only two flowers, which 
were situated near the summit of the spike. These flowers 


Digitized by Google 



102 THE BROAD-LEAVED EPIPACTIS. Chap. HI. 

but in one lot of spikes sent me by Mr. More 
a large majority of the pollinia had been natu- 
rally and cleanly removed by some unknown 
insect. 

Epipactis latifolia . — This species agrees with 
the last in all the foregoing specified details, 
excepting that the rostellum projects consi- 
derably further beyond the face of the stigma, 
and the blunt upper end of the anther projects 
less. The viscid matter lining the elastic cap 
of the rostellum takes a longer time in setting 
dry. The upper petals and sepals are more 
widely expanded than in E. palustris : the dis- 
tal portion of the labellum is smaller, and is 
firmly united to the basal portion (Fig. XIV .) ; 
so that it is not flexible and elastic : it appa- 
rently serves only as a landing-place for in- 
sects. The fertilisation of this species depends 
simply on an insect striking in an upward 
and backward direction the highly-protuberant 
rostellum, which it would be apt to do in 

formed seed-capsules, which were certainly small ; but this may 
have beeD owing to their position. Unfortunately also these 
capsules shed most of their seed in being sent to me ; so that I 
could not ascertain whether the seeds were well formed. Of the 
few seeds which did remain within these two capsules many were 
shrivelled and bad. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. HI. THE BBOAD-LEAVED EPIPACTI8. 


103 


retreating after having sucked the copious 
nectar in the cup of the labellum. Apparently 
it is not at all necessary that the insect should 
push back the less protuberant blunt upper end 
of the anther ; at least I found that the pollinia 
could be easily removed by simply dragging off 
the cap of the rostellum in an upward and 
backward direction. 


Fig. XIV. 



Epipactis latifolia. 

Flower viewed sideways, with all the sepals and petals removed, 
except the labellum. 

a. anther. I «. stigma, 

r. rostellum. | l. labellum. 

In Germany C. K. Sprengel caught a fly 
with the pollinia of this species attached to its 
back. In England the flowers are much visited 
by insects : during the wet and cold season of 
1860 a friend in Sussex examined five spikes 
bearing eighty-five expanded flowers : of these, 
fifty-three had the pollinia removed, and thirty- 


Digitized by Google 



104 CEPHALANTHEEA GRANDIFLORA. Chap. in. 


two had them in place ; but as many of the 
latter were immediately beneath the buds, ulti- 
mately a larger proportion would almost cer- 
tainly have been renewed. In Devonshire I 
found a spike with nine open flowers, and the 
pollinia in all were removed with one excep- 
tion, in which a fly, too small to remove the 
pollinia, had become glued to it and to the 
stigma, and had there miserably perished. 

Cephalanthera grandiflora . — This Orchid ap- 
pears to be closely allied to Epipactis, though 
it has been ranked by sonle authors in a widely 
different position. The stigma holds the same 
relative position to the anther as in Epipactis ; 
but we have here the unique case (my remarks 
never apply to the very different group of the 
Cypripedise) of there being no rostellum. The 
anther resembles that of Epipactis, but stands 
rather higher up relatively to th§ stigma. 
The pollen is extremely friable, and readily 
adheres to any object rubbed against it ; the 
spherical grains are separate, instead of being 
united by threes or fours, as in all other 
Orchids;* they are tied together by a few 

* This separation of the grains was observed, and is represented, 
by Bauer in the plate published by Lindley in his magnificent 
* Illustrations of Orchidaceous Plants.’ 


Digitized by Google 



CHAP.m. CEPHALANTHERA GRANDIFLORA. 


105 


Fig. XV. 



I 


c 


B 


CEPHALANTHERA GRANDIFLORA. 




a. anther ; in the front view, 
B, the two cells with the 
pollen are seen, 
o. rudimentary anther, or 
auricle. 


p. masses of pollen. 

8. stigma. 

1. distal portion of the la- 
bellum. 


A. Oblique view of perfect flower, when fully expanded. 

B. Front view of column, with all the sepals and petals re- 

moved. 

C. Side view of column, with all the sepals and petals removed ; 
- the narrow pillars of pollen between the anther and stigma 

can just he seen. 


F 3 


Digitized by Google 


106 


CEPHALAKTHEEA QEANDIFLORA. Chap. m. 


weak elastic threads ; so that in the state of 
the pollen, as well ^s in the abortion of the 
rostellum, we have degradation of structure. 
The anther opens whilst the flower is in bud 
and partly expels the pollen, which stands in 
two almost free upright pillars, each nearly 
divided longitudinally into two halves. These 
subdivided pillars rest in front against the 
upper square edge of the stigma, which rises 
to about one-third of their height (see front 
view B and side view C). 

Whilst the flower is still in bud, or before it 
is as fully open as ever it becomes, the pollen- 
grains which rest against the upper sharp 
edge of the stigma (but not those in the upper 
or lower parts of the mass) emit a multitude 
of tubes, deeply penetrating the stigmatic 
tissue. After this period the stigma bends a 
little forward, and the result is that the two 
friable pillars of pollen stand almost free from 
their anther-cells, being tied to and supported 
in front by the penetration of their pollen-tubes 
into the edge of the stigma. Without this 
support the pillars would soon fall down. 

Differently from Epipactis, the flower stands 
upright; the lower part of the labellum is 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. III. CEPHALANTHERA GBANDLFLORA. 


107 


turned up parallel to the column (Fig. A), 
and the tips of the lateral petals never become 
quite separate ; * so that the pillars of pollen 
are protected from the wind, and as the 
flower stands upright they do not tumble 
down from their weight. These are points of 
high importance to the plant, as the pollen 
would otherwise be blown or fall down and 
be wasted. The labellum is formed of two 
portions, as in Epipactis ; and when the 
flower is mature, the small triangular distal 
portion turns down at right angles to the 
basal portion; thus forming a small landing- 
place in front of a triangular door, situated 
half-way up the almost tubular flower, by 
which insects can enter. I did not observe 
any nectar ; but as the lower cup-formed 
portion of the labellum presents the same 
structure as in Epipactis, I presume it is 
secreted. After a short time, as soon as the 
flower is fully fertilised, the small distal 
portion of the labellum rises up, shuts the 
triangular door, and again perfectly encloses 
the organs of fructification. 

* Bauer figures the flowers much more widely expanded : all 
that I can say is that I have not seen them in this condition. 


Digitized by Google 



108 


CEPHALANTHERA GRANDIFLOBA. Chap. III. 


In the early penetration of the stigma by a 
multitude of pollen-tubes, which I traced far 
down the stigmatic tissue, we apparently have 
another case, like that of the Bee Ophrys, of 
perpetual self-fertilisation. I was much sur- 
prised at this fact, and asked myself: Why 
does the distal portion of the labellum open for 
a short period? what is the use of the great 
mass of pollen above and below that layer 
of grains, the tubes of which alone penetrate 
the upper edge of the stigma? The stigma 
•has a large flat viscid surface ; and during 
several years I have almost invariably found 
masses of pollen adhering to its surface, and 
the friable pillars of pollen by some means 
broken down. It occurred to me that, 
although the flowers stand upright, and the 
pillars are well protected from the wind, 
yet that the pollen-masses might ultimately 
topple over from their own weight, and so 
fall on the stigma, thus completing the act 
of self-fertilisation. Accordingly, I covered 
up with a net a plant with four buds, and 
examined the flowers as soon as they had 
withered ; the broad stigmas of three of these 
flowers were perfectly free from pollen, but 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. m. OEPHALANTHERA GKANDIFLORA. 


109 


a little had fallen on one corner of the fourth. 
With the exception, also, of the summit of 
the pillar of pollen in this latter flower, all the 
other pillars still stood upright and unbroken. 
I looked at the flowers of some surrounding 
plants, and everywhere found, as I had so 
often done before, broken-down pillars and 
masses of pollen on the stigmas. 

Hence we may safely infer that insects visit 
the flowers, disturb the pollen, and leave 
masses of it on the stigmas. We thus see 
that the reflexion of the distal portion of 
the labellum, by which a temporary landing- 
place and door are formed, — the upturned 
labellum, by which the flower is made tubular 
and insects are compelled to crawl close 
by the stigmatic surface, — the pollen readily 
cohering to any object, and standing in 
friable pillars protected from the wind, — and, 
lastly, the large masses of pollen standing 
above and below that layer of pollen-grains, 
of which alone the tubes penetrate the edge of 
the stigma,— are all co-ordinated structures, 
far from useless; and useless they would be 
if these flowers were capable of perfect self- 
fertilisation. 


Digitized by Google 



110 


CEPHALANTHEBA GRANDIFLORA. Chap. UI. 


To ascertain how far the early and invari- 
able penetration of the upper edge of the 
stigma by the pollen-grains, which rest on 
it, is effectual for fertilisation, I covered up 
a plant, just before the flowers opened, and 
removed the thin net as soon as they had be- 
gun to wither. From long experience I am 
sure that this temporary covering could not 
have injured their fertility. The four covered 
flowers produced as fine seed-capsules as any 
on the surrounding plants. When ripe, I 
gathered them, and likewise capsules from 
several surrounding plants, growing under 
similar conditions, and weighed the seed in 
a chemical balance. The seed from the four 
capsules of the uncovered plants weighed 1*5 
grain, from the covered plant the seed of 
an equal number of capsules weighed under 
one grain ; but this does not give a fair idea 
of the relative difference of fertility, for I 
observed that a great number of the seeds 
from the covered plant were mere minute 
and shrivelled husks. Accordingly I mixed 
the seeds well together, and took four little 
lots from one heap and four little lots from 
the other heap, and, having soaked them in 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. III. CEPHALANTHERA GRANDIFLORA 


111 


water, compared them under the compound 
microscope : out of forty seeds from the 
uncovered plants there were only four bad, 
whereas of forty seeds from the covered-up 
plants there were at least twenty-seven bad; 
so that there were nearly seven times as 
many bad seeds in the covered-up plants as 
in those left to the free access of insects. 

Hence we have the following curioys and 
complex case. Perpetual self- fertilisation, 
hut in an extremely imperfect degree, by the 
early penetration of the pollen-tubes ; this 
would be useful to the plant, if insects failed 
to visit the flowers. The penetration of the 
pollen-tubes, however, is apparently more 
important in retaining the pillars of pollen 
in their proper places, so that insects, in 
crawling into the flowers, might get dusted 
with pollen. This imperfect self-fertilisation 
is habitually and largely aided by insects, 
which may carry a flower’s own pollen on 
to its stigma ; but an insect thus smeared 
with pollen could not fail likewise to cross 
distinct individuals. From the relative posi- 
tion of the parts, it seems indeed probable 
(but I omitted to prove this by the early 


Digitized by Google 



112 


GOODYEBA BEPENS. 


Chap. ttt . 


removal of the anthers, so as to observe 
whether pollen was brought to the stigma 
from other flowers) that an insect would 
more frequently get dusted by crawling out 
of a flower than by crawling into one ; and 
this would of course facilitate a union be- 
tween two distinct individuals. Hence Cepha- 
lanthera offers only a partial exception to 
the aljnost universal rule that the flowers of 
Orchids are fertilised by the pollen of other 
flowers. 

Goodyera repens .* — This genus, in most of 
its characters with which we are concerned, 
is rather closely related to Epipactis. The 
shield-like rostellum is almost square, and 
projects beyond the stigma ; it is supported on 
each side by sloping sides rising from the upper 
edge of the stigma, in nearly the same manner 
as we shall presently see in Spiranthes. The 
surface of the protuberant part of the rostellum 
is rough, and when dry can be seen to be 
formed of cells ; it is delicate, and, when slightly 
pricked, exudes a little milky viscid fluid ; it is 
lined by a layer of very adhesive matter, which 

* Specimens of this rare Highland Orchid were most kindly 
sent me by the Rev. G. Gordon of Elgin. 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. in. 


GOODYERA REPENS. 


113 


quickly sets hard when exposed to the air. 
The protuberant surface of the rostellum, when 
gently rubbed upwards, is easily removed, and 
carries with it a strip of membrane, to the hind 
part of which the pollinia are attached. The 
sloping sides which support the rostellum are 
not removed at the same time, but remain pro- 
jecting up like a fork and soon wither.-. The 
anther is borne on an elongated broad fila- 
ment; a membrane on both sides unites this 
filament to the edges of the stigma, forming an 
imperfect cup or clinandrum. The anther-cells 
open in the bud, and the pollinia become 
attached by their anterior faces, just beneath 
their summits, to the back of the rostellum ; 
ultimately the anther opens widely, leaving the 
pollinia almost naked, but partially protected 
within the membranous cup or clinandrum. 
Each pollinium is partially divided length- 
ways ; the pollen-grains cohere in subtriangular 
packets, including a multitude of grains, each 
grain consisting of four granules ; and these 
packets are tied together by strong elastic 
threads, which at their upper ends run to- 
gether and form a single flattened brown elastic 
ribbon, of which the truncated extremity ad- 
heres to the back of the rostellum. 


Digitized by Google 



114 


GOODYERA REPENS. 


Chap. HI. 


The surface of the orbicular stigma is 
remarkably viscid, which is necessary in order 
that the unusually strong threads connecting 
the packets of pollen should be ruptured. The 
labellum is partially divided into two portions ; 
the terminal portion is reflexed, and the basal 
portion is cup-formed and filled with nectar. 
The passage into the flower between the 
rostellum and labellum is contracted. Since 
my examination of Spiranthes, immediately 
to be described, I have suspected that the 
labellum moves further from the column in 
mature flowers, in order to allow insects, with 
the pollinia adhering to their heads or pro- 
bosces, to enter the flowers more freely. In 
many of the specimens received, the pollinia 
had been removed by insects, and the fork- 
shaped supporting sides of the rostellum were 
partially withered. 

Goodyera is an interesting connecting link 
between several very distinct forms. In no 
other member of the Neotteae have I seen so 
near an approach to the formation of a true 
caudicle,* like that in the Ophreae; and it 

* In a foreign species, the Goodyera discolor, sent me by 
Mr. Bateman, the pollinia approach in structure still closer to 
those of the Ophreae ; for the pollinia thin out into long caudicles, 
closely resembling in form those of an Orchis. The caudicle is 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. HL 


GOODYERA REPENS. 


115 


is curious that in this genus alone (as far as 
I have seen) the pollen-grains cohere in large 
packets, as in the Ophreae. If the nascent 
caudicles had been attached to the lower ends 
of the pollinia, and they are attached a little 
beneath the summit, the pollinia would have 
been almost identical with those of a true 
Orchis. In the rostellum being supported by 
sloping sides, which wither when the viscid 
disc is removed, — in the membranous cup or 
dinandrum between the stigma and anther, — 
and in some other respects, we have a clear 
affinity to Spiranthes. In the anther having 
a broad filament we see a relation to Cepha- 
lanthera. In the structure of the rostellum, 
with the exception of the sloping sides, and in 
the shape of the labellum, we see the affinity 
of Goodyera to Epipactis. Goodyera probably 
shows us the state of the organs of fructifica- 


formed of a bundle of elastic threads, with very small and thin 
packets of pollen-grains attached to them, and arranged like tiles 
one over the other. The two caudicles are united together near 
their bases, where they are attached to a disc of membrane 
lined with viscid matter. From the small size and extreme 
thinness of the basal packets of pollen, and from the strength of 
their attachment to the threads, I believe that they are in a 
functionless condition ; if so, these prolongations of the pollinia 
are true caudicles. 


Digitized by Google 



116 


SPIRANTHE8 AUTUMNAUS. 


Chap. III. 


tion in a large group of Orchids, now mostly 
extinct, but the parents of many living de- 
scendants. 

Spiranthes awtumnalis . — This Orchid, with 
its pretty name of Ladies’-tresses, presents 
some interesting peculiarities.* The rostellum 
is a long, thin, flat, projection, joined by sloping 
shoulders to the summit of the stigma. In the 
middle of the rostellum a narrow vertical brown 
object (Fig. XVI., C) may be seen, bordered 
on each side and covered by transparent mem- 
brane. This brown object I will call “ the 
boat-formed disc.” It forms the middle por- 
tion of the posterior surface of the rostellum, 
and consists of a narrow strip of the exterior 
membrane in a modified condition. Its sum- 
mit (Fig. E) is pointed, its lower end rounded, 
and it is slightly bowed, so as altogether to 
resemble a boat or canoe. It is rather more 
than to 5 of an inch in length, and less than 
rfaj in breadth. It is nearly rigid, and appears 
fibrous, but is really formed of elongated and 
thickened cells, partially confluent. 

* I am much indebted to Dr. Battersby of Torquay, and to 
Mr. A. G. More of Bembridge, for sending me specimens ; but I 
have subsequently examined many growing plants. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. III. 


SPIBANTHES AUTUMN ALI8. 


117 


Fig. XVI. 



Spiranthes autuMnalis, or Ladies’ Tresses. 


a. anther. 
p. pollen-grains. 
t. threads of the pollen- 
masses. 


d. margin of clinandrum. 
r. rostellnm. 

8. stigma. 
n. nectar-receptacle. 


A. Side view of flower in its natural position, with the two lower 

sepals alone removed. The labellum can be recognised by 
its fringed and reflexed lip. 

B. Side view of a mature flower, with all the sepals and petals 

removed. The position of the labellum (which has moved 
from the rostellum) and of the upper sepal is shown by 
the dotted lines. 

C. Front view of the stigma, and of the rostellum with its em- 

bedded central disc. 

D. Front view of the stigma and of the rostellum after the viscid 

disc has been removed. 

E. Viscid disc, removed from the rostellum, greatly magnified, 

viewed posteriorly, and with the attached elastic threads 
of the pollen -masses ; the pollen-grains have been removed 
from the threads. 


Digitized by Google 



118 SPIRANTHES AUTUMN ALI8. Chap. HI. 

This boat, standing vertically up on its 
stem, is filled with thick, milky, extremely 
adhesive fluid, which, when exposed to the 
air, rapidly turns brown, and in about one 
minute sets quite hard. An object is well 
glued to the boat in four or five seconds, and 
when the cement is dry the attachment is won- 
derfully strong. The transparent sides of the 
rostellum, on each side of the disc, consist of 
membrane, attached behind to the edges of the 
boat, and folded over in front, so as to form 
the anterior face of the rostellum. This folded 
membrane, therefore, covers, almost like a deck, 
the cargo of viscid matter within the boat. 

The anterior face of the rostellum is slightly 
furrowed in a longitudinal line over the mid- 
dle of the boat, and is endowed with a remark- 
able vital property ; for, if the furrow be 
touched very gently by a needle, or if a 
bristle be laid along the furrow, it instantly 
splits along its whole length, and a little 
milky adhesive fluid exudes. This action is 
not mechanical, or due to , simple violence. 
The fissure runs up the whole . length of the 
rostellum, from the stigma beneath to the 
summit : at the summit the fissure bifurcates, 


«r 


Digitized by Google 



Chap, nt SPIBANTHES AUTUMNAUS. 119 

and runs down the back of the rostellum on 
each side and round the stem of the boat- 
formed disc. Hence after this splitting action 
the boat-formed disc lies quite free, but em- 
bedded in a fork in the rostellum. The act of 
splitting apparently never takes place spon- 
taneously. I covered up under a net a plant 
with unexpanded flowers, and five of these 
flowers remained fully expanded for exactly a 
week under the net : I then examined their 
rostella, and not one had split ; whereas almost 
every flower on the surrounding and unco- 
vered spikes, which had been visited and 
touched by insects, after remaining expanded 
for only twenty-four hours, had their rostella 
fissured. Exposure for two minutes to the 
vapour of a little chloroform causes the ros- 
tellum to split ; and this we shall hereafter see 
is likewise the case with some other Orchids. 

When a bristle is laid for two or three 
seconds in the furrow of the rostellum, and 
the membrane has consequently become fis- 
sured, the viscid matter within the boat-formed 
disc lies so close to the surface, and, indeed, 
slightly exudes, that the disc is almost sure 
to be glued longitudinally to the bristle and 


Digitized by Google 



120 


SPERANTHES AUTUMN A1IS. 


Chap. HI. 


to be withdrawn with it. When the disc is 
withdrawn the two sides of the rostellum 
(Fig. D), which have been described by 
some botanists as two distinct foliaceous pro- 
jections, are left sticking up like a fork. This 
is the common condition of the flowers after 
they have been open for two or three days, 
and have been visited by insects. The fork 
soon withers. 

When the flower is in bud the back of the 
boat-formed disc is covered with a layer of 
large rounded cells, so that the disc does not 
strictly form the exterior surface of the back 
of the rostellum. These cells contain slightly 
viscid matter : they remain unaltered (as may 
be seen at Fig. E) towards the apex of the 
disc, but at the point where the pollinia are 
attached they disappear. Hence I concluded 
that the viscid matter contained in these 
cells, when they burst, served to fasten the 
threads of the pollinia to the disc ; but, as 
in several large exotic Orchids I could see no 
trace of such cells, I presume that this view is 
erroneous. 

The stigma lies beneath the rostellum, and 
projects with a sloping surface (see side-view, 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. ILL SPIEANTHE8 ATJTUMNALIS. 121 

B); its lower margin is rounded and fringed 
with hairs. On each side a membrane (c l, B) 
extends from the edges of the stigma to the 
filament of the anther, thus forming a mem- 
branous cup or clinandrum, in which the 
lower ends of the pollen-masses lie protected. 

Each pollinium consists of two leaves of 
pollen, quite disconnected at their lower ends, 
and with their summits distinct, but they are 
united by elastic threads for about half of 
their length : a very slight modification would 
convert the two pollinia into four leaves of 
pollen, as occurs in the genus Malaxis and 
in many foreign Orchids. Each of the four 
leaves, moreover, consists of a double layer of 
pollen-grains, united only along their edges. 
The pollen-grains (each consisting of four 
granules) are united by elastic threads, which 
are more numerous along the edges of the 
leaves, and converge at the summit of each 
pollinium. The leaves of pollen are very, 
brittle, and, when placed on the viscid stigma 
of a flower, large sheets are easily broken off. 

Long before the flower expands, the anther- 
cells, which are pressed against the back of 
the rostellum, open in their upper part, so that 

a 


Digitized by Google 



122 SPERANTHES AUTUMNALIS. Chap. HI. 

the included pollinia come exactly into contact 
with the back of the boat-formed disc ; the 
projecting threads then become firmly attached 
to rather above the middle part of the back 
of the disc. The anther-cells afterwards 
open lower down, and their membranous 
walls contract and become brown ; so that by 
the time the flower has fully expanded the 
upper parts of the pollinia lie quite naked, 
their bases rest in little cups formed by the 
withered anther-cells, and they are laterally 
protected by the clinandrum. As the pollinia 
thus lie loose, they are easily removed. 

The tubular flowers are elegantly arranged 
in a spire round the spike, extending hori- 
zontally (Fig. A) from it. The labellum is 
channelled down the middle, and is furnished 
with a reflexed and fringed lip, on which bees 
alight ; its basal internal angles are produced 
into two globular processes, which secrete an 
abundance of nectar. The nectar is collected 
(n. Fig. B) in a small receptacle beneath. 
Owing to the protuberance of the lower 
margin of the stigma, and of the two lateral 
inflexed nectaries, the orifice into the nectar- 
receptacle is much contracted, and is central. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. III. 


SPIRANTHES AUTUMN ALTS. 


123 


When the flower first opens the receptacle 
contains nectar, and at this period the front 
of the rostellum, which is slightly furrowed, 
lies close to the channelled labellum; conse- 
quently a passage is left, but so narrow that 
only a fine bristle can be passed down it.* 
In a day or two the labellum moves a 
little farther from the rostellum, and a wider 
passage is left to the stigmatic surface. On 
this slight movement of the labellum the fer- 
tilisation of the flower absolutely depends. 

With most Orchids the flowers remain open 
for some time before they are visited by 
insects ; but with Spiranthes I have gene- 
rally found the boat-formed disc removed very 
soon after the expansion of the flower. For 
example, in the two last spikes which I 
happened to examine there were in one 
numerous buds on the summit, with the seven 
lowest flowers alone expanded, of which six 
had their discs and pollinia removed ; the 
other spike had eight expanded flowers, with 
the pollinia of all removed. We have seen 

* Professor Asa Gray was so kind as to examine Spiranthes 
gracilis and ceraua in the United States. He found the same 
general structure as in our S. autumnalis, and he was struck 
with the narrowness of the passage into the flower. 

G 2 


Digitized by Google 



124 


SPIRANTHES AUTUMN AXIS. 


Chap. III. 


that when the flower first opens it would he 
attractive to insects, for the receptacle already 
contains nectar ; and the rostellum at this 
period lies so close to the channelled labellum 
that a bee or moth could not pass down its 
proboscis without touching the medial furrow 
of the rostellum. This I know to be the case' 
by repeated trials with a bristle. 

Let it be observed how beautifully every- 
thing is contrived that the pollinia should be 
withdrawn by an insect visiting the flower. 
The pollinia are already attached to the disc 
by their threads, and, from the early withering 
of the anther-cells, they hang loosely sus- 
pended but protected within the clinandrum. 
The touch of the proboscis causes the rostellum 
to split in front and behind, and frees the 
long, narrow, boat-formed disc, which is loaded 
with extremely viscid matter, sure to adhere 
longitudinally to the proboscis. When the 
bee flies away, so surely will it carry away 
the pollinia. As the pollinia are attached 
parallel to the disc, they will become attached 
parallel to the proboscis. Here, however, 
appears a difficulty ; when the flower first 
opens and is best adapted for the removal of 


Digitized by Google 


(Jhap. hl 


SPERANTHES AUTUMN ALIS. 


125 


the pollinia, the labellum lies so close to the 
rostellum, that the pollinia, when attached to 
the proboscis of an insect, could not possibly he 
forced into the flower so as to reach the stigma ; 
they would be either upturned or broken off ; 
but we have seen that after two or three 
days the labellum becomes more reflexed and 
moves from the rostellum, — a wider passage 
being thus left. When in this condition, I 
have tried with the pollinia attached to a 
fine bristle ; and by inserting the bristle into 
the nectar-receptacle (n, Fig. B), it is pretty 
to see how sheets of pollen are left adhering 
to the viscid stigma. It may be observed in 
the diagram, B, that the orifice into the 
nectar-receptacle lies, owing to the projection 
of the stigma, close to the lower side of the 
flower ; hence insects would insert their 
probosces on this side, and an open space is 
thus afforded for the attached pollinia to be 
carried down to the stigma, without being 
brushed off. The stigma evidently projects 
so that the ends of the pollinia may strike 
against it. 

Hence, in Spiranthes, not only the pollen 
must be carried from one flower to another, as 


Digitized by Google 



126 6PIRANTHE8 AUTUMN ALI8. Chap, m. 

in most Orchids, but a lately expanded flower, 
which has its pollinia in the best state for 
removal, cannot then be fertilised. Generally 
old flowers will be fertilised by the pollen of 
younger flowers, borne, as we shall see, on 
a separate plant. In conformity with this 
I observed that the stigmatie surfaces of the 
older flowers were far more viscid than those 
of the younger flowers. Nevertheless, a 
flower which in its early state had not been 
visited by insects would not necessarily, in 
its later and more expanded condition, have 
its pollen wasted ; for insects, in inserting and 
withdrawing their probosces, bow them for- 
wards, and would thus often strike the furrow 
in the rostellum. I imitated this action with 
a bristle, and often succeeded in withdrawing 
the pollinia. I was led to try this from at 
first choosing older flowers for examination ; 
and passing a bristle, or fine culm of grass, 
straight down into the nectary, the pollinia 
were never withdrawn ; but when I bowed 
it forward, I succeeded. Those flowers which 
have not their own pollinia removed can of 
course be fertilised, and I have seen not a 
few cases of flowers with their pollinia still 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. III. 


SPIRANTHES AUTUMNALIS. 


127 


in place, with sheets of pollen on their 
stigmas. 

At Torquay I watched a number of these 
flowers growing together for about half an 
hour, and saw three humble-bees of two kinds 
visit them. I caught one and examined its 
proboscis : on the superior lamina, some little 
way from the tip, two perfect pollinia were 
attached, and three other boat-formed discs 
without pollen ; so that this bee had removed 
the pollinia from five flowers, and had pro- 
bably left the pollen of three of them on the 
stigmas of other flowers. The next day I 
watched the same flowers for a quarter of 
an hour, and caught another humble-bee at 
work ; one perfect pollinium and four boat- 
flJrmed discs adhered to its proboscis, one on 
the top of the other, showing how exactly 
the same part had each time touched the 
rostellum. 

The bees always alighted at the bottom of 
the spike, and, crawling spirally up it, sucked 
one flower after the other. I believe humble- 
bees generally act thus when visiting a dense 
spike of flowers, as it is most convenient for 
them ; in the same manner as a woodpecker 


Digitized by Google 



128 8PIRANTHES AUTUMN AUS. Chap. III. 

always climbs up a tree in search of insects. 
This seems a most insignificant observation ; 
but see the result. In the early morning, 
when the bee starts on her rounds, let us sup- 
pose that she alighted on the summit of the 
spike ; she would surely extract the pollinia 
from the uppermost and last opened flowers ; 
but when visiting the next succeeding flower, 
of which the labellum in all probability would 
not as yet have moved from the column (for 
this is slowly and very gradually effected), 
the pollen-masses would often be brushed off 
her proboscis and be wasted. But nature 
suffers no such waste. The bee goes first to 
the lowest flower, and, crawling spirally up 
the spike, effects nothing on the first spike 
which she visits till she reaches the upper 
flowers, then she withdraws the pollinia : she 
soon flies to another plant, and, alighting on 
the lowest and oldest flower, into which there 
will be a wide passage from the greater re- 
flexion of the labellum, the pollinia will strike 
the protuberant stigma : if the stigma of the 
lowest flower has already been fully fertilised, 
little or no pollen will be left on its dried 
surface ; but on the next succeeding flower. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. in. 


SPIBANTHES AUTUMN ALIS. 


129 


of which the stigma is viscid, large sheets of 
pollen will be left. Then as soon as the 
bee arrives near the summit of the spike 
she will again withdraw fresh pollinia, will 
fly to the lower flowers on another plant, 
and fertilise them ; and thus, as she goes her 
rounds and adds to her store of honey, she 
will continually fertilise fresh flowers and per- 
petuate the race of our autumnal Spiranthes, 
which will yield honey to future generations 
of bees. 


G 3 


Digitized by Google 



( 130 ) 


CHAPTER IV. 

Malaxis paludosa ; simple means of fertilisation — Listera ovata ; 
sensitiveness of the rostellum ; explosion of viscid matter 
action of insects ; perfect adaptation of the several organs — 
Listera cordata — Neottia nidus-avis; its fertilisation effected 
in the same manner as in Listera. 

We now come to the last of the British 
Orchids, those in which no portion of the 
exterior membranous surface of the rostellum 
is permanently attached to the pollinia. This 
subdivision includes only three genera known 
to me, namely, Malaxis, Listera, and Neottia, 
which are here grouped together merely for 
convenience. Malaxis in its fertilisation is an 
uninteresting form ; Listera and Neottia, on 
the other hand, are amongst the most remark- 
able of all Orchids from the manner in which 
their pollinia are removed by insects, through 
the sudden explosion of viscid matter contained 
within their rostellums. 

Malaxis paludosa . — This rare Orchid,* the 
least of the British species, differs from the 

* I am greatly indebted to Mr. Wallis, ofHartfield, in Sussex, 
for numerous living specimens of this Orchid. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. TV. 


BOG MALAXIfl . 


131 


others in the position of its flowers. In 
Malaxis the labellum is turned upwards,* 
instead of downwards, so as to afford, as in 
other Orchids, a landing-place for insects ; its 
lower margin clasps the column, making the 
entrance into the flower tubular. From its 
position it partially protects the organs of 
fructification. [Fig. XYII.] In most Orchids 
the upper sepal and the two upper petals 
afford protection ; but here they are reflexed 
in a singular manner (as may be seen in 
the drawing, Fig. A), apparently to allow 
insects freely to visit the flower. This posi- 
tion of the flower is the more remarkable, 
because it has been purposely acquired, as 
shown by the ovarium being spirally twisted. 
In all Orchids the labellum is properly directed 
upwards, but assumes its usual position as the 
lower lip by the twisting of the ovarium ; but 
in Malaxis the twisting has been carried to 
that degree that the flower occupies the posi- 
tion which it would have held if the ovarium 

* Sir James Smith, I believe, first noticed this fact in the 
‘ English Flora,’ vol. iv. p. 47, 1828. Towards the summit of 
the spike the upper sepal does not depend, as represented in the 
woodcut (Fig. A), but sticks out nearly at right angles ; nor is 
the flower always so completely twisted round. 


Digitized by Google 




Malaxis paludosa. 

(Partly copied from Bauer, but modified from living specimens.) 


a . anther. 

r. rostellum. 

p. pollen. 

8. stigma. 

cl. clinandrum. 

1. labellum. 

v . spiral vessels. 

u. upper sepal. 


A. Perfect 


BOG MALAXIS. 
Fig. XVII. 


Chap. IV. 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. IV. 


BOG MALAXIS. 


133 


had not been at all twisted, and which the 
ovarium ultimately assumes when ripe, by a 
process of gradual untwisting. 

When the minute flower is dissected, the 
column is seen to be longitudinally tripartite ; 
the middle portion of the upper half (see Fig. B) 
is the rostellum. The upper edge of the lower 
part of the column projects where united to 
the base of the rostellum, and forms a rather 
deep fold. This fold is the stigmatic cavity, 
and may be compared to a waistcoat-pocket. 
I found pollen-masses which had their broad 
ends pushed by insects into this pocket ; and 
a bundle of pollen-tubes had here penetrated 
the stigmatic tissue. 

The rostellum, or middle portion, is a tall 
membranous projection of a whitish colour, 


A Perfect flower viewed laterally, with the labellum in its 
natural position, upwards. 

B. Column viewed in front, showing the rostellum, the pocket- 

like stigma, and the anterior lateral portions of the cli- 
nandrum. 

C. Back view of the column in a flower-bud, showing the anther 

with the pear-shaped included pollinia dimly seen, and 
the posterior edges of the clinandrum. 

D. Back view of an expanded flower, with the anther now con- 

tracted and shrivelled, exposing the pollinia. 

E. The two pollinia attached to a little transverse mass of viscid 

matter, hardened by spirits of wine. 


Digitized by Google 



134 


BOG MALAXIS. 


Chap. IV. 


fonned of square cells, and is covered with, a 
thin layer of viscid matter : it is slightly con- 
cave posteriorly, and its crest is surmounted 
by a minute tongue-shaped mass of viscid 
matter. The column, with its narrow pocket- 
like stigma and with the rostellum above, is 
united on each side to a green membranous 
expansion, convex exteriorly and concave in- 
teriorly, of which the summits on each side 
are pointed, and stand a little above the crest 
of the rostellum. These two membranes sweep 
round (see back views, Figs. C and D), and are 
united to the filament or base of the anther ; 1 
thus forming a deep cup or clinandrum behind 
the rostellum. The use of this cup is to afford 
protection, as we shall immediately see, to the 
pollen-masses. When I have to treat of the 
homologies of the different parts, it will be 
shown by the course of tbe spiral vessels that 
these two membranes, forming the clinandrum, 
consist of the two upper anthers of the inner 
whorl, in a rudimentary condition, but utilised 
for this special purpose. 

In a flower before it expands, a little mass 
or drop of viscid fluid may be seen on the 
crest of the rostellum, rather overhanging its 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. IV. 


BOG MALAXIS . 


135 


front surface. After the flower has remained 
open for a little time, this drop shrinks and 
becomes more viscid. Its chemical nature is 
different from that of the viscid matter in 
most Orchids, for it remains fluid for many 
days, though fully exposed to the air. From 
these facts I concluded that the viscid fluid 
exuded from the crest of the rostellum ; but 
fortunately I examined a closely-allied Indian 
form, namely, the Microstylis Rhedii (sent 
me from Kew by Dr. Hooker), and in this, 
before the flower opened, there was a similar 
drop of viscid matter; but on opening a 
still younger bud, I found a minute, regular, 
tongue-shaped projection on the crest of the 
rostellum, formed of cells, which when slightly 
disturbed resolved themselves into a drop of 
viscid matter. At this age, also, the front 
surface of the whole rostellum, between its 
crest and the pocket-like stigma, was coated 
with cells filled with similar brown viscid 
matter ; so that there can be no doubt, had I 
examined a young enough bud of Malaxis, 
I should have found a similar minute tongue- 
shaped cellular projection on the crest of the 
rostellum. 


Digitized by Google 



136 


BOO MALAXIS. 


Chap. IV. 


The anther opens widely whilst the flower 
is in bud, and then shrivels and contracts 
downwards, so that, when the flower is fully 
expanded, the pollinia are quite naked, with 
the exception of their broad lower ends, which 
rest in two little cups formed by the shrivelled 
anther-cells. This contraction of the anther 
is represented in Fig. D in comparison with 
Fig. C, which shows the state of the anther in 
a bud. The upper and much pointed ends of 
the pollinia rest on, but project beyond, the 
crest of the rostellum ; in the bud they are 
unattached, but by the time the flower opens 
they are always caught by the posterior surface 
of the drop of viscid matter, of which the 
anterior surface projects slightly beyond the 
face of the rostellum ; that they are caught 
without any mechanical aid I ascertained by 
allowing some buds to open in my room. In 
Fig. E the pollinia are shown exactly as they 
appeared, but not quite in their natural posi- 
tion, when removed by a needle from a speci- 
men kept in spirits of wine, in which the irre- 
gular little mass of viscid matter had become 
hardened and adhered firmly to their tips. 

The pollinia consist of two pair of very 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. IV. 


BOG MALAXI8. 


137 


thin leaves of waxy pollen ; these four leaves 
are formed of angular grains (each apparently 
subdivided into four granules), which never 
separate. As the pollinia are almost loose, 
being retained merely by their tips adhering 
to the viscid fluid, and by their bases resting 
in the shrivelled anther-cells, and as the petals 
and sepals are so much reflexed, the pollinia 
would be exposed in a remarkable degree 
when the flower is fully expanded, and would 
be liable to be blown out of their proper posi- 
tion, had it not been for the membranous 
expansions on each side of the column forming 
the clinandrum, within which they safely lie. 

When an insect inserts its proboscis, or 
head, into the narrow space between the 
upright labellum and the rostellum, it will 
infallibly touch the little projecting viscid 
mass, and when it flies away it will withdraw 
the pollinia, already attached to the viscid 
matter, but otherwise loose. I easily imitated 
this action by inserting any small object into 
the tubular flower between the labellum and 
rostellum. When the insect visits another 
flower, the very thin pollen-leaves attached 
parallel to the proboscis, or head, will be 


Digitized by Google 



138 BOX MALAXIS. Chap, IV. 

forced in, and their broad ends will enter the 
pocket-like stigma. I found pollinia in this 
position glued to the upper membranous ex- 
pansion of tbe rostellum, and with a large 
number of pollen-tubes penetrating tbe stig- 
matic tissue. The use of the thin layer of 
viscid matter, which coats the surface of the 
rostellum in this genus and in Microstylis, and 
which is of no use in the transportal of the 
pollen from flower to flower, seems to be to 
keep the leaves of pollen, when brought by 
insects, in a proper position for entering and 
remaining in the narrow stigmatic cavity. 
This fact is rather interesting under a homo- 
logical point of view, for, as we shall hereafter 
see, the primordial nature and purpose of 
the viscid matter of the rostellum is that 
common to tbe viscid matter on the stigmas 
of most flowers, namely, the retention of the 
pollen, when brought by any means to its 
surface. 

The flowers of the Malaxis, though so small 
and inconspicuous, are highly attractive to 
insects; for the pollinia bad been removed 
from all tbe flowers on each spike, excepting 
from one or two close under the buds. In 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. IV. 


LISTERA OVATA. 


139 


some old flower-spikes every single pollinium 
had been removed. Insects sometimes re- 
move only one of the two pairs. I noticed 
one flower with all its four pollinia in place, 
with a single pollen-leaf within the stigmatic 
cavity ; and this must clearly have been 
brought by some insect. I found pollen- 
leaves on the stigmas of many other flowers. 
The plant produces plenty of seed : on one 
spike, thirteen of the twenty-one lower flowers 
had formed large capsules. 

Listera ovata, or Tway-blade . — The structure 
and action of the rostellum of this Orchid has 
been tbe subject of a highly remarkable paper 
in tbe Philosophical Transactions, by Dr. 
Hooker,* who has described minutely, and of 
course correctly, its curious structure ; he did 
not, however, attend to the part which insects 
play in the fertilisation of this flower. C. K. 
Sprengel well knew the importance of insect- 
agency, but he misunderstood both the struc- 
ture and the action of the rostellum. 

The rostellum is of large size, thin, or 
foliaceous; convex in front and concave be- 
* 4 Philosophical Transactions,* 1854, p. 259. 


.Digitized by Google 



140 


USTERA OVATA. 


Chap. IY' 


hind, with its sharp summit slightly hollowed 
out on each side ; it arches over the stigmatic 
surface (Fig. XVIII. r, s A). Internally, ac- 
cording to Dr. Hooker, it is divided by longi- 
tudinal septa into a series of loculi, which 
contain and subsequently expel with violence 
viscid matter. These loculi show traces of 
their original cellular structure. I have met 
with this structure of the rostellum in no other 
genus excepting the closely allied Neottia. 
The anther, situated behind the rostellum, 
and protected by a broad expansion of the 
top of the column, opens in the bud. The 
pollinia, when the flower is fully expanded, 
are left quite free, supported behind by the 
anther-cells, and lying in front against the 
concave back of the rostellum, with their 
upper and pointed ends resting on its crest. 
Each pollinium is almost divided into two 
masses. The pollen-grains are attached to- 
gether in the usual manner by a few elastic 
threads ; but the threads are weak, and large 
masses of pollen can be easily broken off. 
After the flower has long remained open, 
■the pollen becomes more friable. The la- 
bellum is much elongated, contracted at the 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. IV. 


LISTEKA OVATA. 



y Google 


Fig. xvm. 


Listeba ovata, or Tway-blade (partly copied from Hooker). 


col. summit of column 
a. anther. 
f. pollen, 
r. rostellum. 


s . stigma. 

1. labellum. 

n. nectar-secreting furrow. 


A. Flower viewed laterally, with all the sepals and petals, except 

the labellum, removed. 

B. Ditto, with the pollinia removed, and with the rostellum 

more reflexed after its explosion. 


142 


LISTEEA 0VATA. 


Chap. IV. 


base, and bent downwards, as represented 
in the drawing ; it is furrowed along the 
middle, from its bifurcation close up to the 
base of the stigma ; and the borders of the 
furrow are glandular and secrete much nectar. 

As soon as the flower opens, if the crest of 
the rostellum be touched ever so lightly, a 
large drop of viscid fluid is instantaneously 
expelled ; this, as Dr. Hooker has shown, is 
formed by the coalescence of two drops pro- 
ceeding from the two depressed spaces on 
each side of the crest. A good proof of this 
fact was afforded by some specimens kept in 
weak spirits of wine, which had apparently 
expelled the viscid matter slowly, and in 
which two separate little spherical balls of 
viscid matter had hardened and had become 
attached to the two pollinia. The fluid is 
at first slightly opaque and milky ; but as 
soon as exposed to the air, in less time than 
a second, a film is formed over it, and in two 
or three seconds the whole drop sets hard, 
and soon assumes a purplish-brown tint. So 
exquisitely sensitive is the rostellum, that a 
touch from the thinnest human hair suffices 
to cause the explosion. It will take place 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. IV. 


POWER OF EXPLOSION. 


143 


under water. Exposure to the vapour of 
chloroform for about one minute also causes 
the explosion. The viscid fluid when pressed 
between two plates of glass before it has set 
hard is seen to be structureless ; but it assumes 
a reticulated appearance, perhaps caused by 
the presence and union of globules of a denser 
fluid immersed in a thinner fluid. As the 
pointed tips of the loose pollinia lie on the 
crest of the rostellum, they are always caught 
by the exploded drop : I have never once seen 
this fail. So rapid is the explosion and so 
viscid the fluid, that it is difficult to touch 
the rostellum with a needle quickly enough 
not to catch the pollinia already attached to 
the partially-hardened drop. Hence, if a 
bunch of flowers be carried home in the 
hand, some of the sepals or petals, being 
shaken, will he almost sure to touch the 
rostellum and withdraw the pollinia, which 
will cause the false appearance of their hav- 
ing been violently ejected to a distance. 

After the anther-cells have opened and 
have left the naked pollinia resting on the 
concave back of the rostellum, the rostellum 
curves a little forwards, and perhaps the 


Digitized by Google 



144 


LISTEEA OVATA. 


Chap. IV. 


anther also moves a little backwards. This 
movement is of much importance, as the tips 
of the anther would otherwise be caught by 
the exploded viscid matter, and the pollinia 
would for ever be locked up and rendered 
useless. I once found an injured flower which 
had been pressed and had exploded before 
fully expanding, and the anther, with the 
enclosed pollen-masses, was permanently glued 
down to the crest of the rostellum. At the 
moment of the explosion the rostellum, which 
already stands arched over the stigma, quickly 
bends forwards and downwards so as to stand 
(Fig. B) at right angles to its surface. The 
pollinia, if not removed by the touching 
object that causes the explosion, become 
fixed to the rostellum, and by its movement 
are drawn a little forward. If their lower 
ends are now freed by a needle from the 
anther-cells, they spring up ; but they are not 
by this movement placed on the stigma. In 
the course of some hours, or of a day, the 
rostellum not only slowly recovers its original 
slightly-arched position, but becomes quite 
straight and parallel to the stigmatic surface. 
This backward movement of the rostellum is 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. IV. 


MANNER OF FERTILISATION. 


145 


of importance ; for if after the explosion it 
permanently remained projecting at right 
angles close over the stigma, pollen could with 
difficulty have been left on its viscid surface. 
When the rostellum is touched so quickly 
that the pollinia are not removed, they are, 
as I have said, drawn at the moment of ex- 
plosion a little forward by the movement of 
the rostellum; but by its subsequent back- 
ward movement the pollinia are pushed back 
into their original position. 

From the account here given we may safely 
infer how the fertilisation of this Orchid is 
effected. Small insects alight on the broad 
lower end of the labellum for the sake of the 
nectar copiously secreted by it ; as they lick 
up the nectar they slowly crawl up its 
narrowed surface until their heads stand 
directly under the over-arched crest of the 
rostellum ; as they raise their heads they 
touch the crest, which explodes, and the 
pollinia become firmly cemented to them. 
The insect in flying away withdraws the 
pollinia, carries them to another flower, and 
leaves masses of the friable pollen on its 
viscid stigma. 

H 


Digitized by Google 



146 


LISTERA OVATA. 


Chap. IY. 


In order to witness what I felt sure would 
take place, I watched a group of plants on two 
or three occasions for an .hour ; each day I saw 
numerous specimens of two small Hymen- 
opterous insects, namely, a Haemiteles and a 
Cryptus, flying about the plants and licking 
up the nectar ; most of the flowers, which were 
visited over and over again, had already had 
their pollinia removed, but at last I saw both 
these insect-species crawl into younger flowers, 
and suddenly retreat with a pair of bright 
yellow pollinia sticking to their foreheads ; I 
caught them, and found the point of attach- 
ment was to the inner edge of the eye ; on 
the other eye of one specimen there was a ball 
of the hardened viscid matter, showing that 
it had previously removed another pair of 
pollinia, and had subsequently in all proba- 
bility left them on the stigma of one of the 
flowers. As I caught these insects, I did not 
witness the act of fertilisation ; hut C. K. 
Sprengel actually saw a Hymenopterous insect 
leave its pollen-mass on the stigma. My son 
watched another bed of this Orchid at some 
miles’ distance, and brought me home the 
same Hymenopterous insects with attached 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. IV. 


MANNER OF FERTILISATION. 


147 


pollinia, and he saw Diptera also visiting the 
flowers. He was struck with the number of 
spider-webs spread over these plants, as if the 
spiders were aware how attractive the Listera 
was to insects, and how necessary they were 
to its fertilisation. 

To show how delicate a touch suffices to 
cause the rostellum to explode, I may men- 
tion that I found an extremely minute Hy- 
menopterous insect vainly struggling with its 
whole head buried in the hardened viscid 
matter, thus cemented to the crest of the 
rostellum and to the tips of pollinia ; the 
insect was not so large as one of the pollinia, 
and after causing the explosion it had not 
force to remove them, and was thus punished 
for attempting a work beyond its strength, 
and perished miserably. 

In Spiranthes the young flowers, which 
have their pollinia in the best state for re- 
moval, cannot possibly be fertilised ; they 
must remain in a virgin condition until they 
are a little older and the labellum has moved 
from the column. Here the same thing 
apparently occurs, for the stigmas of the 
older flowers were more viscid than those of 

h 2 


Digitized by Google 



148 


LISTERA OVATA. 


Chap. IV. 


the younger flowers. These latter have their 
pollinia quite ready for removal ; hut imme- 
diately after the explosion the rostellum, as 
we have seen, curls forwards and downwards, 
thus protecting the stigma for a time, until 
the rostellum slowly becomes quite straight, 
when the stigma in its more, mature con- 
dition is left freely exposed, and is ready for 
fertilisation. 

I was curious to ascertain whether the 
rostellum would ultimately explode, if never 
touched ; but I have found it difficult to ascer- 
tain this fact, as the flowers are so attractive 
to insects, and the touch of such minute insects 
suffices to cause the explosion, that it was 
scarcely possible to exclude them. 

I have covered up plants several times, and 
left them till long after all uncovered plants 
had set their pods ; and without going into 
unnecessary details, I may positively state 
that the rostella in several flowers had not 
exploded, though the stigma was withered, 
the pollen quite mouldy and incapable of re- 
moval. Some few of the very old flowers, 
however, when roughly touched, were still 
capable of feeble explosion. Other flowers 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. IV. 


MANNER OF FERTILISATION. 


149 


under the nets had exploded, and the tips 
of their pollinia were fixed to the crest of 
the rostellum; but whether these had been 
touched by some excessively minute insect, or 
had exploded spontaneously, it is impossible 
to say. In the case of these latter flowers, it 
is of some importance to note that not a grain 
of pollen had got on their stigmas (and I 
looked carefully), and their ovaria had not 
swollen. These several facts clearly show that 
the removal of the pollinia by insect-agency 
is absolutely necessary to the fertilisation of 
this species. 

That insects do their work effectually, the 
following cases show : — A rather young spike, 
with many buds in the upper part, had the 
pollinia unremoved from the seven upper 
flowers, but they had been completely removed 
from the ten lower flowers : there was pollen 
on the stigmas of six of these ten lower 
flowers. In two spikes taken together, the 
twenty-seven lower flowers had their pollinia 
removed, with pollen on the stigmas of all ; 
these were succeeded by five open flowers 
with pollinia not removed, and with no 
pollen on their stigmas ; and these were 


Digitized by Google 



150 


LISTERA OVATA. 


Chap. IV. 


succeeded by eighteen buds. Lastly, in an 
older spike with forty-four flowers, all fully 
expanded, the pollinia bad been removed from 
every one ; and on all the stigmas that I ex- 
amined there was pollen, generally in large 
quantity. 

It will perhaps be worth while to recapitu- 
late the several special adaptations for the 
fertilisation of this Orchid. The anther-cells 
open early, leaving the pollen-masses quite 
loose, with their tips resting on the concave 
crest of the rostellum. The rostellum then 
slowly curves over the stigmatic surface, so 
that its explosive crest stands at a little dis- 
tance from the anther ; and this is very 
necessary, otherwise the anther would be 
caught by the viscid matter, and the pollen 
for ever locked up. This curvature of 
the rostellum over the stigma and base of 
the labellum is excellently well adapted to 
favour an insect striking the crest when it 
raises its head, after having crawled up the 
labellum, and licked up the last drop of nectar 
at its base. The labellum, as C. K. Sprengel 
has remarked, becomes narrower where it 
joins the column beneath the rostellum, so 


Digitized by 


Google 



Chap. IV. MANNER OF FERTILISATION. 151 

that there is no risk of the insect going too 
much to either side. The crest of the ros- 
tellum is so exquisitely sensitive, that a touch 
from a most minute insect causes it to rupture 
at two points, and instantaneously two drops 
of viscid fluid are expelled, which coalesce. 
This viscid fluid sets hard in so wonderfully 
rapid a manner that it rarely fails to cement 
the tips of the pollinia, nicely laid on the 
crest of the rostellum, to the insect’s fore- 
head. As soon as the rostellum has exploded 
it suddenly curves downwards till it projects 
at right angles over the stigma, protecting it 
in its early state from impregnation, in the 
same manner as the stigma of Spiranthes 
is protected by the labellum clasping the 
column. But as in Spiranthes the labellum 
after a time moves from the column, leaving 
a free passage for the introduction of the pol- 
linia, so here the rostellum moves back, and 
not only recovers its former arched position, 
but stands upright, leaving the stigmatic sur- 
face, now become more viscid, perfectly free 
for pollen to be left on it. The pollen-masses, 
when once' cemented to an insect’s forehead, 
will generally remain firmly attached to it 


Digitized by Google 



152 LISTERA COED AT A. Chap. IV. 

until the viscid stigma of a mature flower re- 
moves these encumbrances from the insect, by 
rupturing the weak elastic threads by which 
the grains are tied together — receiving at the 
same time the benefit of fertilisation. 

Listera cordata . — Professor Dickie of Aber- 
deen was so kind as to send me two sets of 
specimens, but I applied rather too late in the 
season. The structure is essentially the same 
as in the last species, and the loculi of the 
rostellum were very plain. In the middle, on 
the crest of the rostellum, two or three little 
hairy points project ; whether these have 
any functional importance I know not. The 
labellum has two basal lobes (of which vestiges 
may be seen in L. ovata) which curve up on 
each side, and would compel an insect to 
approach the rostellum straight in front. Two 
flowers had been touched either during the 
journey, or too quickly by some insect, and 
had exploded ; and their pollinia in conse- 
quence were firmly cemented to the crest of 
the rostellum ; but in most of the spikes 
all the pollen-masses had been removed by 
insects. 

Neottia nidus-avis . — I made numerous ob- 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. IV. 


BIRD’S-NEST ORCHIS. 


153 


servations on this, the Bird’s-nest Orchis,* but 
they are not worth giving, as the action and 
structure of every part is almost identically 
the same as in Listera ovata. The labellum 
secretes plenty of nectar, which I mention 
merely as a caution, because during one cold 
and wet season I looked several times and 
could not see a drop, and was perplexed at 
the apparent absence of any attraction for 
insects ; nevertheless, had I looked more per- 
severingly, I should probably have found 
nectar. 

Whether the rostellum ultimately explodes, 
if not touched, I could not ascertain ; that it 
long remains unexploded, though ready to 
act, is certain ; but I found in 1860 so many 
flowers exploded, with a bead of the purplish 
hardened cement attached to the crest of the 
rostellum and to the unremoved pollinia, that 
I suspect that it does explode, after a time, 
spontaneously, without the excitement of a 
touch. In one large spike, every flower had 

* This unnatural sickly-looking plant has generally been sup- 
posed to be parasitic on the roots of the trees under the shade of 
which it lives ; but, according to Irmisch (‘ Beitrage zur Biologie 
and Morphologie der Orchideen,’ 1853, s. 25), this certainly is 
not the case. 

H 3 


Digitized by Google 



154 


BERD’S-NEST ORCHIS. 


Chap. IV. 


been visited by insects, and all the pollinia 
had been removed. Another unusually fine 
spike from South Kent, sent me by Mr. 
Oxenden, had home forty-one flowers, and 
produced twenty-seven large seed-capsules, 
besides some smaller ones. • 

The pollen resembles that of Listera, in 
consisting of grains (formed of four granules) 
tied together by a few weak threads ; it 
differs in being much more incoherent, so that 
after a few days it swells and overhangs the 
sides and summit of the rostellum : hence, 
if the rostellum of a rather old flower he 
touched, and an explosion he caused, the pol- 
linia are not so neatly caught by their tips 
as in Listera ; consequently a good deal of 
the friable pollen is often left behind in the 
anther-cells and is apparently wasted. Por- 
tions of this fall on the corolla ; and as the 
pollen in this state readily adheres to any 
object, it is not improbable that insects 
crawling about would thus get dusted, and 
leave some on the viscid stigma, without 
having touched the rostellum and caused it 
to explode. Certainly if the labellum were 
more upturned, so that insects were forced to 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. IV. 


BffiD’S-NEST ORCHIS. 


155 


brush against the anther and column, they 
would get smeared with the pollen as soon 
as it had become friable, and might thus 
effectually fertilise the flower. 

This observation interested me, because, 
when previously examining Cephalanthera, 
with its aborted rostellum, its upturned label- 
lum, and its friable pollen, I had speculated 
how a transition, with each gradation useful 
to the plant, could possibly have been effected 
from the state of the pollen and flower in the 
allied Epipactis, with its pollinia attached to 
a well-developed rostellum, to the present con- 
dition of Cephalanthera. Neottia nidus-avis 
shows to a certain extent how such a transi- 
tion might have been effected. This Orchid 
is at present mainly fertilised by means of 
the explosive rostellum, which acts effectually 
only as long as the pollen remains in mass ; 
but unless we suppose that the circumstance 
of the pollen soon becoming friable is a mere 
injury to the plant, we may believe that the 
pollen in this condition is sometimes trans- 
ported to the stigma by its adhesion to the 
hairy bodies of insects. If this be so, we can 
see that by a slight change in the form of the 


Digitized by Google 



156 


BIRD'8-NEST ORCHIS. 


Chap. IV. 


flower, and by the pollen becoming friable at 
a still earlier age, this means of fertilisation 
might be rendered more and more effectual, 
and the explosive rostellum less and less 
useful. Ultimately the rostellum would be- 
come a superfluity ; and then, on the great 
principle of the economy of organisation, ren- 
dered so necessary by the struggle for life, by 
which every part of every being tends to be 
saved, the rostellum would be absorbed or 
aborted. In this case we should have the 
production of a new Orchid in the condition 
of Cephalanthera, as far as its means of 
fertilisation are concerned, but in general 
structure still closely allied to Neottia and 
Listera. 


Digitized by Google 



( 157 ) 


CHAPTER Y. 

Cattleya, simple manner of fertilisation — Masdevallia, curious 
closed flower — Dendrobium, contrivance for self-fertilisation — 
Vandese, diversified structure of the pollinia; importance of 
the elasticity of the pedicel ; its power of movement — Elasticity 
and strength of the caudicle — Calanthe with lateral stigmas, 
manner of fertilisation — Angraecum sesquipedale, wonderful 
length of nectary — Acropera, perplexing case, a male Orchid. 

Having examined the means of fertilisation 
in so many British Orchids, belonging to 
fourteen genera, I was anxious to ascertain 
whether the exotic forms, belonging to quite 
distinct Tribes, equally required insect-agency. 
I especially wished to ascertain whether the 
rule holds good that each flower is necessarily 
fertilised by pollen brought from a distinct 
flower; and in a secondary degree I was 
curious to know whether the pollinia under- 
went those curious movements of depression 
by which they are placed, after transportal 
by insects, in the proper position to strike 
the stigmatic surface. 

By the kindness of many friends and 
strangers I have been enabled to examine 
fresh flowers of several species, belonging 


Digitized by Google 



158 


FOREIGN ORCHIDS. 


Chap. V. 


to forty-three exotic genera, well dispersed 
through the sub-families of the vast Orchidean 
series.* It is not my intention to describe the 
means of fertilisation in all these genera, but 
merely to pick out a few curious cases, and 
other cases which illustrate the foregoing de- 
scriptions. The diversity of the contrivances, 
almost all adapted to favour the intercrossing 
of distinct flowers, seems to he exhaustless. 

* I am particularly indebted to Dr. Hooker, who on every 
occasion has given me his invaluable advice, and has never become 
weary of sending me specimens from the Royal Gardens at Kew. 

Mr. James Veitch, jun., has generously given me many beautiful 
Orchids, some of which were of especial service. Mr. R. Parker 
also sent me an extremely valuable series of forms. Lady Dorothy 
Nevill most kindly placed her magnificent collection of Orchids 
at my disposal. Mr. Rucker of West Hill, Wandsworth, sent me 
repeatedly large spikes of Catasetum, a Mormodes of extreme 
value to me, and some Dendrobiums. Mr. Rodgers of Sevenoaks 
has given me interesting information. Mr. Bateman, so well 
known for his magnificent work on Orchids, sent me a number 
of interesting forms, including the wonderful Angraecum sesqui- 
pedale. 

I am greatly indebted to Mr. Turnbull of Down for allowing 
me the free use of his hot-houses, and for giving me some inte- 
resting Orchids ; and to his gardener, Mr. Horwood, for his aid in 
some of my observations. 

Professor Oliver has kindly aided me with his large stores of 
knowledge, and has called my attention to several papers. Lastly, 
Dr. Lindley has sent me fresh and dried specimens, and has in 
the kindest manner helped me in various ways. 

To all these gentlemen I can only express my cordial thanks 
for their unwearied and generous kindness. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


EPEDENDEE^E. 


159 


. EPIDENDREiE. 

In the arrangement given by Lindley in 
that invaluable work the Vegetable Kingdom, 
we first meet with the two great tribes of 
the Malaxese and Epidendreae. They are 
characterised by the pollen-grains cohering 
into large waxy masses, not congenitally 
attached to the rostellum. In the Malaxeae (of 
which one British form has been described) 
the pollinia properly have no caudicle ; 
whereas, in the Epidendrese (of which tribe 
no British representative exists), they have 
an unattached caudicle. 

For my purpose these two tribes might 
have been run together ; and as the pollinia 
of some of the Malaxeae have a minute 
but perfectly efficient caudicle, the division 
between them, in this their leading character, 
blends away. But this is a misfortune which 
every naturalist encounters in attempting to 
classify a largely - developed or so - called 
natural group, in which, relatively to other 
groups, there has been little extinction. In 
order that the naturalist may be enabled to 
give precise and clear definitions of his 


Digitized by Google 



160 


CATTLEYA. 


Chap. Y. 


divisions, whole ranks of intermediate or 
gradational forms must have been utterly 
swept away : if here and there a member 
of the intermediate ranks has escaped an- 
nihilation, it puts an effectual bar to any 
absolutely distinct definition. 

I will begin with the genus Cattleya, of 
which I have seen several species, and 
which is fertilised in a very simple manner, 
different from that in any British Orchid. 
The rostellum (r, Fig. A,' B) is a broad, 
tongue-shaped projection, which arches slightly 
over the stigma : the upper surface is formed 
of smooth membrane ; the lower surface and 
the central portions (originally a mass of 
cells) consist of a very thick layer of viscid 
matter. This viscid mass is hardly separated 
from the viscid matter thickly coating the 
stigmatic surface which lies close beneath the 
rostellum. The generally projecting upper 
lip of the anther rests on, and opens close 
over, the base of the upper membranous 
surface of the tongue-shaped rostellum. The 
anther is kept closed by a sort of spring at 
the back, at its point of attachment to the 
top of the column. The pollinia consist of 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


MANNER OF FERTILISATION. 


161 


Fig. XIX. 



Cattleya. 


o. anther. 

b. spring at the top of the 
column. 

p. pollen-masses, 
r. rostellum. 


s. stigma. 
col. column. 

I . labellum. 
ft. nectary. 

g. ovarium, or germen. 


A. Front view of column, with all the sepals and petals removed. 

B. Section and lateral view of the flower, with all the sepals and 

petals removed, except the bisected labellum shown only 
in outline. 

C. Anther viewed on the under side, showing the four caudicles 

with the four pollen-masses beneath. 

D. A single pollinium, viewed laterally, showing the pollen-mass 

and caudicle. 


Digitized by Google 


162 


CATTLEYA. 


Chap. Y. 


four (or eight in Cattleya crispa) waxy 
masses, each furnished (see Fig. 0 and D) 
with a ribbon-like tail, formed of a bundle 
of highly elastic threads, with numerous 
pollen-grains adhering to them. Hence the 
pollen is of two kinds, waxy masses and 
separate grains (each, as usual, consisting 
of four granules) united by elastic threads : 
this latter kind of pollen is identical with 
that of Epipactis and other Neotteae.* These 
tails, though consisting of good pollen, act 
also as caudicles, and are thus designated, 
for they serve as the means of removal of 
the larger waxy masses from the anther-cells. 
The tips of the caudicles are generally 
reflexed, and in the mature flower protrude 
a little way out of the anther-case (see 
Fig. A), and lie on the base of the upper 
membranous lip of the rostellum. The 
labellum enfolds the column, making the 
flower tubular, and its lower part is pro- 
duced into a nectary, which penetrates the 
ovarium. 

* The pollen-masses of Bletia are admirably represented on a 
gigantic scale in Bauer’s drawings, published by Lindley in his 
‘ Illustrations.’ 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


MANNER OF FERTILISATION. 


163 


Now for the action of these parts. If any 
body of size proportional to that of the 
tubular flower be forced into it — a dead 
humble-bee acted best — the tongue-shaped 
rostellum is depressed, and the object often 
gets slightly smeared with viscid matter ; 
but in withdrawing the object, the tongue- 
formed rostellum is upturned, and a sur- 
prising quantity of viscid matter is forced 
over its edges and sides, and at the same 
time into the lip of the anther, which 
is slightly raised by the upturning of the 
rostellum. Thus the protruding tips of the 
caudicles are instantly glued to the retreating 
body, and the pollinia are withdrawn. This 
hardly ever failed to occur in my repeated 
trials. A living bee or other large insect 
alighting on the fringed edge of the labellum, 
and scrambling into the flower, would de- 
press the labellum and would be less likely 
to disturb the rostellum, until it had sucked 
the nectar and began to retreat. When a 
dead bee, with the four waxy balls of pollen 
dangling by their caudicles from its back, is 
forced into another flower, some or all of 
these balls are surely caught by the broad, 


Digitized by Google 



164 


CATTLEYA. 


Chap. Y. 


shallow, and very viscid stigmatic surface, 
which likewise tears off the grains of pollen 
from the threads of the caudicles. 

That living humble-bees can thus remove 
the pollinia is certain. Sir W. C. Trevelyan 
sent to Mr. Smith of the British Museum 
(who forwarded to me) a Bombus hortorum 
— caught in his hot-house, where a Cattleya 
was in flower — with its whole back, between 
the wings, smeared with dried viscid matter, 
and with the four pollinia attached to it by 
their caudicles, and ready to be caught by 
the stigma of another flower if the bee had 
entered one. 

The caudicles of the pollinia being free, 
and the viscid matter from the rostellum not ‘ 
coming into contact with them without 
mechanical aid, as well as the general 
manner of fertilisation, are the same in 
.those species which I have seen of Lselia, 
Leptotes, Sophronitis, Barkeria, Phaius, 
Evelyna, Bletia, and Coelogyne. In Coelo- 
gyne cristata the upper lip of the rostellum 
is much elongated. In Evelyna caravata 
eight balls of waxy pollen are all united to 
one caudicle. In the Barkeria the labellum, 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


EPEDENDRUM. 


165 


instead of enfolding the column, is pressed 
against it, and this would even more effec- 
tually compel insects to brush against the 
rostellum. In Epidendrum we have a slight 
difference ; 'for the upper surface of the ros- 
tellum, instead of permanently remaining 
membranous, as in the above-named genera, 
is so tender that by a touch it breaks up, 
together with the whole lower surface, into 
a mass of viscid matter. In this case the 
whole of the rostellum, with the adherent 
pollinia, is removed by insects when they 
retreat from the flower. I observed in E. 
glaucum that viscid matter exuded from the 
upper surface of the rostellum when touched, 
as I have seen in Epipactis; in fact it is 
difficult to say, in these cases, whether the 
upper surface of the rostellum should be 
called membrane or viscid matter. 

In Epidendrum floribundum there is a 
. rather greater difference : the anterior horns 
of the clinandrum (i. e. the cup at the sum- 
mit of the column in which the pollinia lie) 
approach each other so closely as to adhere 
to the two sides of the rostellum, which con- 
sequently lies in a nick, with the pollinia over 


Digitized by Google 



166 


MALAXED. 


Chap. V. 


it : and as, in this species, the upper surface 
of the rostellum resolves itself into viscid 
matter, the pollinia become glued to it without 
any mechanical aid. The pollinia, though 
thus attached, cannot, of course, be removed 
out of their anther -cells without the aid 
of insects. In this species it Seems possible 
(though, from the position of parts, not pro- 
bable) that an insect might drag the pollinia 
on to its own stigma. In all the other species 
of Epidendrum which I have examined, and 
in all the above-mentioned genera, as the 
pollinia lie unattached above the rostellum, 
it is evident that the viscid matter has to 
be forced upwards into the lip of the anther 
by a retreating insect, which would thus ne- 
cessarily carry the pollinia from one flower to 
the stigma of another flower. 

MALAXED. 

Turning now to the Malaxese : in Pleuro- 
thallis prolifera and ligulata (?) the pollinia 
have a minute caudicle, and mechanical aid 
is requisite to force the viscid matter from 
the under side of the rostellum into the 
anther, thus to catch the caudicles and 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


167 


remove the pollinia. On the other hand, in 
our British Malaxis and in the Microstylis 
Rhedii from India, the upper surface of the 
minute tongue - shaped rostellum becomes 
viscid and adheres to the pollinia without me- 
chanical aid. In these two genera we have 
the curious case of the. lower and flat surface 
of the rostellum being coated with a thin layer 
of viscid matter, apparently for the purpose 
of securing the pollinia in a proper position 
when brought by insects, so as to enter or 
remain in the slit-like stigma. In Stelis race- 
miflora the pollinia had also apparently (for 
the flowers were hot in a good condition) 
become spontaneously attached to the rostel- 
lum ; and I mention this latter flower chiefly 
because some insect in the hot-house at Kew 
had removed most of the pollinia, and had left 
some of them adhering to the lateral stigmas. 
These curious little flowers are widely ex- 
panded and much exposed; hut after a time 
the three sepals close with perfect exactness 
and shut up the flower, so that it is scarcely 
possible to distinguish an old flower from a 
bud : yet, to my surprise, I found that the 
closed flowers opened under water. 


Digitized by Google 



168 


MATATTPliffi 


Chap. V. 


The allied Masdevallia fenestrata is an 
extraordinary flower; for the three sepals, 
instead of closing, as in the Stelis after the 
flower has remained for a time expanded, 
always cohere together and never open. 
Two minute, lateral, oval windows (hence 
the name fenestrata), seated high up the 
flower and opposite each other, afford the 
only entrance into the flower; but the pre- 
sence of these two minute windows (Fig. 
XX.) shows how necessary it is that insects 
should have access in this 

Fig. xx. 

case as with all other Or- 

r chids. How insects per- 
form the act of fertilisation 
I have failed to understand. 
At the bottom of the roomy 
and dark chamber formed 

Masdevallia fenestrata. ])y til 6 closed Sepals, the 
The window on the near side is , . . _ 

shown darkly shaded. minute COIUmn IS placed, 

n. nectary. Jjj f rQn t 0 f which the far- 


Masdevallia fenestrata. 

The window on the near side is 
shown darkly shaded. 

n. nectary. 


rowed labellum stands, with a highly flexible 
hinge, and on each side the two upper petals ; 
a little tube being thus formed. Hence, when 
a minute insect enters, or a larger insect inserts 
its proboscis through either window, it has by 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


MALAXEJL 


169 


touch to find the inner tube in order to reach 
the curious nectary at its base. Within this 
little tube, formed by the column, labellum, 
and lateral petals, a very broad and hinged 
rostellum projects at right angles, the under 
surface of which is viscid; the minute cau- 
dicles of the pollinia, projecting out of the 
anther-case, rest on the base of the upper 
membranous surface of the rostellum. The 
stigmatic cavity is deep. After cutting away 
the sepals I vainly endeavoured, by pushing 
a bristle into the tubular flower, to remove the 
pollinia. The whole structure of the flower 
seemed carefully intended to prevent the with- 
drawal of the pollinia, as well as their subse- 
quent insertion into the stigmatic chamber! 
Some new and curious contrivance has here 
to be made out. 

Of Bolbophyllum I examined the curious 
little flowers of four species, which I will not 
attempt fully to describe. In B. cupreum 
and cpcoinum, the upper and lower surfaces 
of the rostellum resolve themselves into viscid 
matter, which has to be forced upwards by 
insects into the anther, so as to secure the pol- 
linia. I effected this easily by passing a needle 

i 


Digitized by Google 



170 


MALAXED. 


Chap. V. 


down and withdrawing it from the flower, 
which is rendered tubular by the position of 
the labellum. In B. rhizophorae the anther- 
case moves back, when the flower is mature, 
and leaves the two pollen-masses fully exposed 
and adhering spontaneously to the upper sur- 
face of the rostellum. The two pollen-masses 
adhere together by viscid matter, and, judging 
from the action of a bristle, are always re- 
moved together. The stigmatic chamber is 
very deep, and its orifice is oval, and is exactly 
fitted by one of the two pollen-masses. After 
the flower has remained open for some time, 
the sides of the oval orifice of the stigmatic 
chamber close in and shut it completely, — a 
fact which I have observed in no other Orchid, 
and which, I presume, is here related to the 
much exposed condition of the whole flower. 
When the two pollinia were attached to a 
needle or bristle, and were forced against the 
stigmatic chamber, one of the two masses 
glided into the small orifice more readily than 
could have been anticipated. Nevertheless it 
is evident that insects must place themselves 
on successive visits in precisely the same posi- 
tion, so as first to remove the two pollinia, 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. V. 


MALAXED. 


171 


and then force one of them into the stigmatic 
orifice. The two upper filiform petals would 
serve as guides to the insect ; but the labellum, 
instead of making the flower tubular, hangs 
just like a tongue out of a widely open mcuth. 

The labellum in all the species which I 
have seen, more especially in B. rhizophorae, 
is remarkable by being joined to the base of 
the column by a very narrow, thin, white 
strap, which is highly elastic and flexible ; it 
is even highly elastic when stretched, like an 
india-rubber band. When the flowers of this 
latter species were blown by a breath of wind 
the tongue-like labellums all waggled about 
in a very odd manner. In some species not 
seen by me, as in B. barbigerum, the labellum 
is furnished with a beard of fine hairs, and 
these cause the labellum to be in almost con- 
stant motion from every breath of air. What 
the use can be of this extreme flexibility and 
liability to movement in the labellum, I can- 
not conjecture, unless it be to attract the notice 
of insects to their dull-coloured, small, and in- 
conspicuous flowers, in the same manner as the 
bright colours and strong odours of many other 
Orchids apparently serve to attract insects. 

i 2 


Digitized by Google 



I 


172 DENDROBIUM. Chap. V. 

Of the many singular properties of Orchids, 
the irritability of the labellum in several 
distantly-allied forms is highly remarkable. 
When touched, it is described as quickly 
moving. This is the case with some of the 
species of Bolbophyllum, but I could not 
detect any irritability in the species which I 
examined ; nor have I, much to my regret, 
seen any Orchid with an irritable labellum. 
The Australian genus Calaena is endowed 
with this property in a most remarkable de- 
gree ; for when an insect alights on its label- 
lum it suddenly shuts up against the column, 
and encloses its prey as it were in a box. 
Dr. Hooker * believes that this action aids in 
some manner in the fertilisation of the plant. 

The last genus of the Malaxeae which I will 
mention is Dendrobium, of which one at least 
of the species, namely D. chrysanthum, is 
interesting, from being apparently contrived 
to effect its own fertilisation, if an insect, 
when visiting the flower, should accidentally 
fail to remove the pollen-masses. The rostellum 
has an upper and a small lower surface com- 
posed of membrane ; and between these a thick 
* ‘ Flora of Tasmania/ vol. ii. p. 17, under Calaena. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. POWER OF SELF-FERTILISATION. 


173 


Fig. XXI. 



Dendrobium chbysanthtjm. 


a. anther. 7. labellum. 

r. rostellum. n. nectary. 

8 . stigma. 

A. Lateral view of flower, with the anther in its proper position, 

before the ejection of the pollinia. All the sepals and 
petals are removed except the labellum, which is longi- 
tudinally bisected. 

B. Outline of column, viewed laterally, after the anther has 

ejected the pollinia. 

C. Front view of column, showing the empty cells of the anther, 

after it has ejected its pollinia. The anther is represented 
hanging too low, and covering more of the stigma than it 
really does. 


Digitized by Google 



174 


DENDROBIUM. 


Chap. V. 


mass of milky-white matter is included, which 
can be very easily forced out. This white 
matter is less viscid than usual; when ex- 
posed to the air a film forms over it in less 
than half a minute, and it soon sets into a 
waxy or cheesy substance. Beneath the ros- 
tellum the large concave but shallow viscid 
stigmatic surface is seated. The produced 
anterior lip of the anther (see A) almost 
entirely covers the upper surface of the ros- 
tellum. The filament of the anther is of con- 
siderable length, hut is hidden in the side- 
view, A, behind the middle of the anther ; in 
the section, B, it is seen, after it has sprung 
forward : it is elastic, and presses the anther 
firmly down on the inclined surface of the 
clinandrum (see section B) which lies behind 
the rostellum. When the flower is expanded 
the two pollinia, united into a single mass, 
lie quite loose on the clinandrum and under 
the anther-case. The labellum embraces the 
column, leaving a tubular passage in its front ; 
the middle portion (as may be seen in its 
section, in Fig. A) is thickened ; the thickened 
portion extends up as far as the top of the 
stigma. The lowest part of the labellum is 


Digitized by Google 



Chap.V. power op self-fertilisation. 


175 


developed into a saucer-like nectary, which 
secretes honey. 

If an insect forced its way into one of these 
flowers, the labellum, which is elastic, would 
yield, and the projecting lip of the anther 
would protect the rostellum from being dis- 
turbed ; but when the insect retreats, the lip 
of the anther will be lifted up, and the viscid 
matter from the rostellum will be forced into 
the anther, gluing the pollen-mass to the 
insect, which will thus transport it to another 
flower. I easily imitated this action ; but as 
the pollen-masses have no caudicle, and lie 
rather far back 'within the clinandrum under 
the anther, and as the matter from the rostel- 
lum is not highly viscid, they were sometimes 
left behind and not caught. 

Owing to the inclination of the base of the 
clinandrum, and owing to the length and 
elasticity of the filament, when the anther was 
lifted up it was always shot over the rostellum, 
and remained hanging there, with its lower 
empty surface (Fig. C) suspended over the 
summit of the stigma. The filament now 
stretches across the space (see Fig. B) which 
was originally covered by the anther. Several 


Digitized by Google 



176 


DENDROBIUM. 


Chap. Y. 


times, having cut off all the petals and label- 
lum, and laid the flower under the microscope, 
I raised with a needle the lip of the anther, 
without disturbing the rostellum, and saw the 
anther assume, with a spring, the position 
represented sideways in Fig. B, and frontways 
in Fig. C. By this springing action the 
anther scoops the pollen-mass out of the con- 
cave clinandrum, and pitches it up in the air, 
with exactly the right force so as to fall down 
on the middle of the viscid stigma, where it 
sticks. 

Under nature, however, the action cannot 
be as thus described ; for the labellum hangs 
downwards ; and to understand what follows, 
the drawing should be placed nearly upside 
down, in an almost reversed position. If an 
insect failed to remove the pollinium by means 
of the viscid matter from the rostellum, the 
pollinium would first be jerked downwards on 
to the protuberant surface of the labellum, 
placed immediately beneath the stigma. But 
it must be remembered that the labellum is 
elastic, and that at the same instant that the 
insect, in the act of leaving the flower, lifted 
up the lip of the anther, and so caused the 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. POWEB OP SELF-FERTILISATION. 


177 


pollen-mass to be shot out, the labellum would 
rebound back, and striking the pollen-mass 
would pitch it upwards, so as to hit the sticky 
stigma. Twice I succeeded in effecting this, 
with the flower held in its natural position, 
by imitating the retreat of an insect ; and on 
opening the flower I found the pollen-mass 
glued to the stigma. 

This view of the use of the elastic filament, 
seeing how complicated the action must be, 
may appear fanciful; but we have seen so 
many and such curious adaptations, that I 
cannot believe the strong elasticity of the 
filament and the thickening of the middle of 
the labellum to be useless points of structure. 
If the action be as I have described, it might 
be an advantage to the plant that its single 
large pollen-mass should not be wasted, if 
it failed to adhere to an insect by means of 
the viscid matter from the rostellum. This 
contrivance is not common to all the species 
of the genus ; for in neither D. bigibbum nor 
D. formosum was the filament of the anther 
elastic, nor was the middle line of the label- 
lum thickened. In D. tortile the filament 
was elastic; but as I saw only one flower, 

i 3 


Digitized by Google 



178 


VANDEiE. 


Chap. V. 


before I had made out the structure of D. 
chrysanthum, I cannot say how it acts. 

VANDEJ5. 

We now come to Lindley’s immense Tribe 
of the Yandeae, which includes many of the 
most extraordinary productions of our hot- 
houses, but has no British representative. 
I have examined twenty-four genera. The 
pollen consists of waxy masses, as in the two 
last Tribes, and each ball of pollen is fur j 
nished with a caudicle, which becomes, at 
an early period of growth, united to the 
rostellum. The caudicle is seldom attached 
directly to the viscid disc, as in the Ophreae, 
but to the upper and posterior surface of the 
rostellum; and this part, together with the 
disc, is removed by insects. The imaginary 
diagram (Fig. XXII.), with the parts sepa- 
rated, will best explain the type-structure 
of the Yandeae. The middle organ (2) is 
the dorsal or posterior pistil of the three 
pistils always present in Orchids ; its upper 
part is modified into and forms the rostel- 
lum, and is curved over the stigma. The 
stigma consists of two stigmas belonging to 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. STRUCTURE OF THE FLOWER. 179 

Fig. XXII. 

anther, candicle. 

pedicel of 
roetellum. 

viscid disc 

stigma. 


12 3 

Diagram, illustrative of the structure of the column in the 
Yandex. 

(1.) The filament, bearing the anther with its pollen-masses : 
the anther is represented after it has opened along its 
whole under surface, which consequently does not 
appear in the section here given. 

(2.) The upper pistil modified into the rostellum. 

(3.) The two lower confluent pistils, hearing the two confluent 
stigmas. 

the two other confluent (3) pistils. On the 
left hand we have the filament (1) bearing 
the anther. The anther opens at an early- 
period, and the tips of the two caudicles 
protrude through a small slit (only one 
caudicle and one pollen-mass is represented 
in the diagram) in a not fully-hardened 
condition, and adhere to the back of the 



Digitized by Google 


180 


YANDEX 


Chap. V. 


rostellum. The surface of the rostellum is 
generally hollowed out for the reception of 
the pollen-masses ; it is represented as smooth 
in the diagram, but is really often furnished 
with crests or knobs for the attachment of 
the two caudicles. The anther afterwards 
opens more widely on its under surface, and 
leaves the two pollen-masses unattached, ex- 
cepting by their caudicles to the rostellum. 

During this early period of growth, a 
remarkable change has been going on in the 
rostellum : either its extremity or its lower 
surface becomes excessively viscid, and a line 
of separation, at first appearing as a mere 
hyaline zone of tissue, gradually is formed, 
which separates the viscid extremity or disc, 
as well as the whole upper surface of the 
rostellum, as far back as the point of attach- 
ment of the caudicles. If any object now- 
touches the viscid disc, it, the whole back 
of the rostellum, the caudicles and pollen- 
masses, can all he readily removed together. 
In botanical works the whole structure be- 
tween the disc (generally called the gland) 
and the waxy halls of pollen is designated 
as the caudicle; hut as these parts play an 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


STBUCTUBE OF THE FLOWEB. 


181 


essential part in the fertilisation of the flower, 
and as they are fundamentally different in 
their origin and in their minute structure, 
I shall call the two elastic ropes, which are 
developed strictly within the anther-cells, the 
caudicles ; and the portion of the rostellum to 
which the caudicles are attached (see diagram), 
and which is not viscid, the pedicel. The 
viscid portion of the rostellum I shall call, 
as heretofore, the viscid disc. The whole may 
be conveniently spoken of as the pollinium. 

In the Ophreae we always have (except in 
0. pyramidalis) two separate viscid discs. 
In the Vandeae, with the exception of An- 
graecum, we have only one disc. The disc 
is naked, or is not enclosed in a pouch. In 
Habenaria the discs, as we have seen, are 
separated from the two caudicles by short 
drum-like pedicels, answering to the single 
and generally much more largely developed 
pedicel in the Vandeae. In Ophreae the 
caudicles of the pollinia, though elastic, are 
rigid, and serve to place the packets of 
pollen at the right distance from the insect’s 
head or proboscis, so as to reach the stigma. 
In the Vandeae this end is gained by the 


Digitized by Google 



182 


VANDEiE. 


Chap. V. 


pedicel of the rostellum. The two caudicles 
in the Yandeae are attached and embedded 
within a deep cleft in the pollen-masses, 
and until stretched are rarely visible, for the 
pollen-masses lie close to the pedicel of the 
rostellum. These caudicles answer both in 
position and function to the elastic threads, 
by which the packets of pollen are tied 
together in the Ophreae, at the point where 
they become confluent and where they form 
the upper part of the caudicle ; for the func- 
tion of the true caudicle in the Yandeae is to 
break when the masses of pollen, transported 
by insects, adhere to the stigmatic surface. 

In many Yandeae the caudicles are easily 
ruptured, and the fertilisation of the flower, 
as far as this point is concerned, is a simple 
affair ; hut in other cases the strength of the 
caudicles and the length to which they can be 
stretched before they break is surprising. I 
was at first perplexed to understand what 
good purpose the great strength of the 
caudicles and their capacity of extension 
could serve. It is obvious that, when 
projecting far out from an insect’s head, 
whilst flying about (and the insect, in the 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


ACTION OF THE ORGANS. 


183 


case of the larger Orchids, must be of con- 
siderable size), the strength of the caudicles 
would protect the pollen-masses from being 
brushed off and lost. So again, when an 
insect transporting a pollinium visits a flower 
either too young, with its stigma not yet 
sufficiently viscid, or one already impreg- 
nated, with its stigma beginning to dry, the 
strength of the caudicle would prevent the 
pollen-masses from bemg uselessly removed. 
It should be remembered that the pollen- 
masses are precious objects, for each flower, 
in most of the genera, produces only two ; 
and in many cases, judging from the size of 
stigma, both pollen-masses would he left on 
one stigma, though in other cases the size of 
the orifice of the stigma allows the introduc- 
tion of one pollen-mass alone ; so that, in 
this latter case, the pollen from one flower 
probably suffices to fertilise two flowers. 

Although at the proper period the stig- 
matic surface is astonishingly viscid in many 
cases, as in Phalaenopsis and Saccolabium, 
yet when, having removed the pollinia 
adhering to a rough scalpel by their viscid 
discs, I inserted the balls of pollen into 


Digitized by Google 



184 


YANDEX. 


Chap. V. 


the stigmatic chamber, they did not adhere 
to the surface with sufficient force to prevent 
their withdrawal. I even left them for some 
little time in contact with the viscid surface, 
as an insect would do whilst feeding; but 
when I pulled the pollinia straight out of 
the stigmatic chamber, the caudicles, though 
they were stretched to a great length, did 
not rupture, nor did the viscid disc separate 
from the scalpel ; consequently the balls of 
pollen' were not left on the stigma. It then 
occurred to me that an insect in flying away 
would not pull the pollinia straight out of 
the chamber, but would pull at nearly right 
angles to its orifice. When I thus acted, the 
stretched caudicles were necessarily dragged 
over the margin of the chamber, and the 
friction thus caused, together with the 
viscidity of the stigmatic surface, generally 
ruptured them and left the pollen-masses on 
the stigma. Thus, it seems that the great 
strength and extensibility of the caudicles, 
which, until stretched, lie embedded within 
the pollen-masses, serve to protect the 
pollen-masses from being wasted, and yet, 
by friction being brought into play, allow 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. Y. 


ACTION OF THE ORGANS. 


185 


them, at the proper time and by means of 
insects, to be left adhering to the stigmatic 
surface, and the fertilisation of the flower to 
be safely effected. 

The discs and pedicels of the rostellum in 
the Yandeae present great diversities in 
shape, and an apparently exhaustless number 
of adaptations. Even in species of the 
same genus, as in Oncidium, these parts 
differ greatly. I have here given a few 
figures (Fig. XXIII.), taken almost at 
hazard. The pedicel generally consists (as 
far as I have seen) of a piece of thin ribbon- 


Fig. XXIII. 



POLLINIA OF VaNDELE. 

d. viscid disc. ped. pedicel. p. pollen-masses. 

The candicles, being embedded within the pollen-masses, are 
not shown. 

A. Pollinium of Oncidium grande after partial depression. 

B. Pollinium of Brassia maculata (copied from Bauer). 

C. Pollinium of Stanhopea saccata after depression. 

D. Pollinium of Sarcanthus teretifolius after depression. 


Digitized by Google 



186 


VANDEiE. 


Chap.' V. 


shaped membrane (Fig. A), long or short ; 
but sometimes it is almost (Fig. 0) cylindrical 
and often of all sorts of shapes. The pedicel 
is generally nearly straight, but in Miltonia 
Clowesii it is naturally curved ; and in some 
other cases, as we shall immediately see, it 
assumes, after removal, various shapes. The 
extensible and elastic caudicles, by which the 
pollen - masses are attached to the pedicel, 
are here not visible, being embedded in a 
cleft or hollow within each pollen-mass. The 
disc, which is viscid on the under side, con- 
sists of a piece of thin or thick membrane of 
the most diversified shapes. In Acropera it 
is like a pointed cap ; in some cases it is 
tongue-shaped, or heart-shaped (Fig. C), or 
saddle-shaped, as in some Maxillarias, or like 
a thick cushion (Fig. A), as in many species 
of Oncidium, with the pedicel attached at one 
end, instead of, as is more usual, nearly to its 
centre. > In Angraecum distichum and sesqui- 
pedale the rostellum is notched, and two 
separate, thin, membranous discs can he re- 
moved, each carrying by a short pedicel its 
pollen-mass. In Sarcanthus teretifolius the 
disc (Fig. D) is very oddly shaped ; and as 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. ACTION OF THE ORGANS. 187 

the stigmatic chamber is very deep, and like- 
wise curiously shaped, one is tempted to 
believe that the disc has to be fastened with 
great precision on to the square projecting 
head of some insect. 

In most cases there is a plain relation 
between the length of the pedicel and t}ie 
depth of the stigmatic chamber, into which 
the pollen-masses have to be inserted; in 
some few cases, however, in which there is 
a long pedicel and a shallow stigma, we shall 
meet with curious compensating actions. 
After the disc and pedicel have been re- 
moved, the shape of the rostellum is altered, 
being generally only slightly shortened and 
made thinner : sometimes it becomes notched : 
in Stanhopea, the entire circumference of the 
extremity of the rostellum is removed, and a 
thin, pointed, needle-like process alone is left, 
which originally ran up its centre. 

If we now turn to the former imaginary 
diagram (Fig. XXII., p. 179), and suppose the 
rectangularly bent rostellum to be thinner and 
the stigma to lie closer under it, we shall see 
that, if an insect with the pollinium attached 
to its head were to fly to another flower and 


Digitized by Google 



188 


VANDEjE. 


Chap. V. 


occupy almost exactly the same position 
which it held when the attachment of the 
disc was effected, the pollen-masses would 
strike the stigma, especially if, from their 
weight, they had become in the least degree 
depressed. This is all that takes place in 
Lycaste Skinnerii, Cymbidium giganteum, 
Zygopetalum Mackai, Angraecum eburneum, 
Miltonia Clowesii, in a Warrea, and, I believe, 
in Gfaleandra Funkii. But if in our diagram 
we suppose the stigma to be seated lower down 
at the bottom of a deep cavity, or suppose 
the anther to be seated higher up so that the 
pedicel of the rostellum sloped upwards, and 
under other contingencies not worth detailing, 
all of which occur, — in such cases, an insect 
with the pollinium attached to its head, on 
flying to another flower would not strike the 
stigma with the pollen-masses unless some 
great change had intervened in their position 
after attachment. 

This change is effected in many Yandese 
in the same manner as is so general with 
the Ophreas, namely, by a movement of 
depression in the pollinium in the course of 
about half a minute after its removal from 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. V. 


ACTION OF THE ORGANS. 


189 


the rostellum. I have seen this movement 
conspicuously displayed, generally causing 
the pollinium after detachment to rotate 
through about a quarter of a circle, or 90°, 
in several species of Oncidium, Odonto- 
glossum, Yanda, Aerides, Sarcanthus, Sacco- 
labium, Acropera, and Maxillaria. In Rodri- 
guezia suaveolens the movement of depression 
is remarkable from its extreme slowness ; in 
Eulophia viridis from its small extent. In 
some, indeed, of the cases specified of the 
pollinia undergoing no movement, I am not 
sure that there is not a very slight depres- 
sion. In the Ophrese the anther-cells are 
sometimes seated exteriorly and sometimes 
interiorly with respect to the stigma ; and 
we accordingly have outward and inward 
movements in the pollinia : hut in the Vandese 
the anther-cells lie directly over the stigma, 
and the movement of the pollinium is always 
directly downwards. In Calanthe, however, 
the two stigmas are placed exteriorly to the 
anther-cells, but the pollinia, as we shall see, 
are made to strike them by a mechanical 
arrangement of the parts. 

In the Ophrese the seat of contraction, 


Digitized by Google 



190 


VANDEiE. 


Chap. V. 


which causes the act of depression, is in the 
upper ( surface of the viscid disc, near the 
point of attachment of the caudicle: in the 
Yandeae the seat is likewise in the upper 
surface of the viscid disc, but at the point 
where the pedicel is united to it, and there- 
fore at a considerable distance from the point 
of attachment of the true caudicles. The 
contraction and consequent movement is 
hygrometric in its nature (but the subject, as 
we shall see in the seventh chapter, is rather 
obscure), and consequently does not take 
place until the pollinium is removed from the 
rostellum, and the point of union of the disc 
and pedicel has been exposed for a few 
seconds to the air. If, after the contraction 
and consequent movement of the pedicel, 
the whole body be placed into water, the 
pedicel slowly moves back and resumes the 
same position with respect to the viscid dise 
which it held when forming part of the 
rostellum. When taken out of water, it again 
undergoes the movement of depression. It is 
of importance to notice these facts, as we thus 
get a test by which this movement can be 
distinguished from certain other movements. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


ACTION OF THE ORGANS. 


191 


In one species of Maxillaria, viz. in the M. 
ornithorhyncha, we have a unique case. The 
pedicel of the rostellum is much elongated, 
and is entirely covered by the produced 
front lip of the anther, and is thus kept 
damp. When removed there is no move- 
ment at the junction of the disc and pedicel ; 
but the pedicel itself, at a point rather more 
than half-way up, quickly bends backwards 
on itself, in a reversed direction compared 
with all other cases. When the pedicel is 
placed in water it resumes its original straight 
form. If we suppose the long upright neck 
of a bird to represent the pedicel, the head 
representing the balls of pollen, then in all 
ordinary cases the movement is that of a bird 
picking up food from the ground, but bending 
only the lower vertebrae close to its body ; 
whereas, in this Maxillaria, the movement is 
as if the bird threw its head backwards so 
as nearly to touch its own back, the middle 
vertebrae of the neck being alone bent. I 
stated above that, when the pedicel is long 
and the stigmatic cavity shallow, as in this 
Maxillaria, we have a compensating action ; 
and here we have one instance. The labellum 


Digitized by Google 



192 


VANDE M. 


Chap. V. 


has a square projection in front of the stigma, 
the passage into the flower being thus con- 
tracted; and if the pedicel of the rostellum 
did not somehow become shortened, the flower 
could hardly be fertilised. After the reversed 
movement just described, and the consequent 
shortening of the pedicel, the pollinium, when 
attached to any small object, can be inserted 
into the flower, and the balls of pollen are so 
placed as readily to adhere to the stigmatic 
surface. 

In some cases, besides these hygrometric 
movements, elasticity comes into play. In 
Aerides odorata and virens, and in Oncidium 
(roseum?), the pedicel of the rostellum is 
fastened down in a straight line, by the disc 
at one extremity and by the anther at the 
other ; it has, however, a strong natural elastic 
tendency to spring up at right angles to the 
disc. Consequently, when the pollinium is 
removed by its viscid disc sticking to any 
object, the pedicel instantly springs up and 
stands at nearly right angles to its former 
position, with the pollen-masses carried aloft. 
This has been noticed by other observers; 
and I agree with them that the object gained 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


ACTION OF THE OBGANS. 


193 


is to free the pollen-masses from their anther- 
cells. After this upward elastic spring, the 
downward hygrometric movement immediately 
commences, which, oddly enough, carries the 
pedicel hack again into almost the same posi- 
tion, relatively to the disc, which it held 
whilst adhering to the rOstellum. The end 
of the pedicel, however, which , in Aerides 
carries the pollen-mass by short dangling 
caudicles, remains curved a little upwards ; 
and this seems well adapted to drop the 
pollen-masses into the deep stigmatic cavity 
over a ledge in front. The difference be- 
tween the first elastic and the second or 
reversed hygrometric movement, was well 
seen (I tried it only in the Oncidium) by 
placing the pollinium, after both movements 
had taken place, into water, when the 
pedicel moved into the position which it 
had at first acquired by elasticity, which 
latter position was not in any way affected 
by the water. When taken out of water 
the hygrometric movement of depression soon 
recommenced. 

In Eodriguezist secunda there was no slow 
movement of depression in the pedicel as in 

E 


Digitized by Google 



194 


VANDEJL 


Chap. V. 


the before-mentioned R. suaveolens, but there 
was a rapid downward movement, due, appa- 
rently, in this one case, to elasticity; for 
when the pedicel was put into water it 
showed no tendency to recover its original 
position, as occurs with all the many other 
Orchids which I have examined. 

In Phalsenopsis grandiflora and amabilis 
the stigma is shallow and the pedicel of the 
rostellum long. Consequently a compensating 
action is requisite, which, differently from the 
case of the Maxillaria, is effected by elasticity. 
There is no movement of depression; but, 
when the pollinium is removed, the straight 
pedicel suddenly curls up, thus The 

full-stop on the left hand may represent the 
balls of pollen, but the disc on the right 
hand must be imagined to be a triangular 
piece of membrane. The pedicel does not 
Straighten itself in water. The end carrying 
the balls of pollen after the contraction is a 
little raised up, and the pedicel, with one 
end raised, and with the middle part up- 
wardly bowed, seems well adapted to drop 
the pollen-masses, over a ledge in front, into 
the deep stigmatic cavity. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


CALANTHE. 


195 


In Calanthe Masuca and the hybrid C. 
Dominii the structure is very different. We 
here have two oval, pit-like stigmas standing 
quite laterally on each side of the rostellum 
(Fig, XXIV.). The viscid disc is oval 
(Fig. B), and has no pedicel, but eight masses 


Fig. XXIV. 




Calanthe Masuca. 


p. pollen-masses. 
s 8 . the two stigmas, 
n. mouth of nectary. 
1. labellum. 


d . viscid disc. 

cl. clinandrum with pollen- 
masses removed. 


A. Flower viewed from above, with the anther-case removed, 

showing the eight pollen-masses in their proper position 
within the clinandrum. All the sepals and petals have 
been cut away except the labellum. 

B. Pollen masses attached to the viscid disc, seen from the under 

side. 

C. Flower in same position as in A, but with the disc and pollen- 

masses removed, showing the now divided rostellum and 
the empty clinandrum in which the pollen-masses lay. 
Within the left-hand stigma two pollen-masses may be 
seen adhering to its viscid surface. 

E 2 


Digitized by Google 


196 


YANDEX. 


Chap. V. 


of pollen are attached to it by very short 
and easily ruptured caudicles. These pollen- 
masses radiate from the disc like the spokes 
of a fan. The rostellum is broad and its sides 
slope on each side towards the lateral pit- 
like stigmas. "When the disc is removed 
the rostellum is seen (Fig. C) to he deeply 
divided in the middle. The labellum is 
united to the column almost up to its summit, 
leaving a passage ( n , A) to the long nectary 
close beneath the rostellum. The labellum 
is studded with singular, wart-like, globular 
excrescences. 

If a thick needle he inserted into the mouth 
of the nectary (Fig. A), and then withdrawn, 
the viscid disc will he withdrawn, hearing 
with it the elegant fan of radiating pollen- 
masses. These undergo no change in posi- 
tion. But if the needle be now inserted into 
the nectary of another flower the ends of the 
pollen-masses necessarily hit the upper and 
laterally sloping sides of the rostellum, and, 
glancing off both ways, they strike down into 
.the two lateral pit-like stigmas. The thin 
caudicles being easily ruptured, the pollen- 
masses are left adhering like little darts (see 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. ANGBJ5CUM SESQUIPEDALE. 197 

left-hand stigma in Fig. 0) to the viscid surface 
of both stigmas, and the fertilisation of the 
flower is completed in a simple manner pleas- 
ing to behold. 

I should have stated that a narrow trans- 
verse rim of stigmatic tissue, running be- 
neath the rostellum, connects the two lateral 
stigmas ; and it is probable that some of the 
middle pollen-masses may be inserted through 
the notch in the rostellum or beneath its 
surface. I am more inclined to this opinion 
from having found in the elegant Calanthe 
vestita that the rostellum extends so widely 
over the two lateral stigmas, that apparently 
all the pollen-masses would have to be inserted 
beneath its surface. 

I fear that the reader will be wearied, but 
I must say a few words on the Angrsecum 
sesquipedale, of which the large six-rayed 
flowers, like stars formed of snow-white wax, 
have excited the admiration of travellers in 
Madagascar. A whip-like green nectary of 
astonishing length hangs down beneath the 
labellum. In several flowers sent me by 
Mr. Bateman I found the nectaries eleven 
and a half inches long, wdth only the lower 


Digitized by Google 



198 


YANDE2E. 


Chap. Y. 


inch and a half filled with very sweet, nectar. 
What can be the use, it may be asked,. , of a 
nectary of such disproportional length ? We 
shall, I think, see that the fertilisation of the 
plant depends on this length and on nectar 
being contained only within the lower and 
attenuated extremity. It is, however, sur- 
prising that any insect should be .able to 
reach the nectar : our English sphinxes have 
prohosces as long as their bodies; but in 
Madagascar there must be moths with pro- 
bosces capable of extension to a length of 
between ten and eleven inches ! 

The rostellum is broad and foliaceous, and 
arches rectangularly over the stigma and 
over the orifice of the nectary : it is deeply 
cleft, with the cleft enlarged or widened at 
the end. Hence the rostellum pretty closely 
resembles (see Fig. XXIY., C) that of 
Calanthe after the disc has been removed. 
The under surfaces of both margins of the 
cleft near its end are bordered by narrow 
strips of viscid membrane, easily removed; 
so that there are two distinct viscid discs. 
To the middle of each disc a short mem- 
branous pedicel is attached ; and each pedicel 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. T. 


ANGRiECUM SESQUIPEDALE. 


199 


carries at its other end a pollen-mass. 
Beneath the rostellum a narrow, ledge-like, 
viscid stigma is seated. 

I could not for some time understand how 
the pollinia of this Orchid were removed, 
or how it could be fertilised. I passed 
bristles and needles down the open entrance 
into the nectary and through the cleft in the 
rostellum with no result. It then occurred to 
me that, from the length of the nectary, the 
flower must be visited by large moths, with a 
proboscis thick at the base ; and that to drain 
the last drop of nectar even the largest moth 
would have to force its proboscis as far down 
as possible. To effect this, whether or not the 
moth first inserted its proboscis by the open 
entrance into the nectary (as is most probable, 
from the shape of the flower, &c.) or through 
the cleft in the rostellum, it would ultimately 
force its proboscis into this cleft, for this is 
the straightest course, and by slight pressure 
the whole foliaceous rostellum can be de- 
pressed : the distance from the outside of the 
flower to the extremity of the nectary can be 
thus shortened by about a quarter of an inch. 
Hence I took a cylinder, one-tenth of an inch 


Digitized by Google 



200 


VANDEJS. 


Chap. V. 


in diameter, and pushed it down through the 
cleft in the rostellum : the margins readily 
separated, and were pushed downwards to- 
gether with the whole rostellum. When I 
slowly withdrew the cylinder the rostellum 
rose from its elasticity, and the margins of 
the cleft were upturned and clasped the 
cylinder. Thus the viscid strips of mem- 
brane on the under sides of the cleft rostellum 
came into contact with the cylinder, and 
firmly adhered to it ; and the pollen-masses 
were withdrawn. By this means alone I 
succeeded in each case in withdrawing the 
pollinia; and it cannot, I think, be doubted 
that a large moth must thus act; namely, 
by driving its proboscis up to the very base, 
through the cleft of the rostellum, so as to 
reach the extremity of the nectary ; and then 
withdrawing its proboscis with the pollinia 
attached to it. 

I did not succeed in imitating the fertili- 
sation of the flower so well as I did in 
withdrawing the pollinia, but I effected it 
twice. As the margins of the cleft rostellum 
must be upturned before the discs adhere to 
the cylinder, they become, during its with- 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


ANGBJSCUM SESQUIPEDALE. 


201 


drawal, affixed some little way from its actual 
base. The two discs did not always* adhere 
at exactly corresponding points. Now, when 
a moth inserts its proboscis, with the pollinia 
affixed to it near the base, into the mouth of 
the nectary, the pollen-masses will probably: 
be first inserted beneath the rostellum ; and 
during the final exertion, when the moth 
pushes its proboscis through the cleft of the 
rostellum, the pollen-masses will almost neces- 
sarily be placed on the narrow, ledge-like 
stigma projecting beneath the rostellum. By 
acting thus with the pollinia attached to the 
cylinder the pollen-masses were twice tom off 
and left glued to the” stigmatic surface. — 

If the Angrsecum in its native forests 
secretes more nectar than did the vigorous 
plants sent me by Mr. Bateman, so that the 
nectary becomes filled, small moths might 
obtain their share, but they would not benefit 
the plant. The pollinia would not be with- 
drawn until some huge moth, with a wonder- 
fully long proboscis, tried to drain the last 
drop. If such great moths were to become 
extinct in Madagascar, assuredly the An- 
grsecum would become extinct. On the other 

s 3 


Digitized by Google 



202 


YANDEJS. 


Chap. Y. 


hand, as the nectar, at least in the lower part 
of the nectary, is stored safe from depreda- 
tion by other insects, the extinction of the 
Angraecum would probably be a serious loss 
to these moths. We can thus partially 
understand how the astonishing length of the 
nectary may have been acquired by successive 
modifications. • • As certain moths of Mada- 
gascar became larger through natural selec- 
tion in relation to their general conditions 
of life, either in the larval or mature state, 
or as the proboscis alone was lengthened 
to obtain honey from the Angraecum and 
other deep tubular flowers, those individual 
plants of the Angraecum which had the 
longest nectaries (and the nectary varies much 
in length in some Orchids), and which, 
consequently, compelled the moths to insert 
their probosces up to the very base, would 
be best fertilised. These plants would yield 
most seed, and the seedlings would generally 
inherit longer nectaries ; and so it would be 
in successive generations of the plant and 
moth. Thus it would appear that there has 
been a race in gaining length between the 
nectary of the Angraecum and the proboscis 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


ACBOPEBA. 


203 


of certain moths ; but the Angraecum has 
triumphed, for it flourishes and abounds in 
the forests of Madagascar, and still troubles 
each moth to insert its proboscis as far as 
possible in order to drain the last drop of 
nectar. 

Finally, another genus, Acropera, must be 
noticed from an independent reason. Al- 
though Dr. Hooker sent me, over and over 
again, fresh flowers of two species (A. 
luteola * and Loddigesii), this genus for a long 
time remained the opprobrium of my work. All 
the parts seemed determinately contrived that 
the plant should never be fertilised. I believe 
I have at last partly solved the mystery ; yet 
the use of some important parts remains quite 
unintelligible. But I do not suppose that I 
completely understand the contrivances in 
any one Orchid; for I find that the more I 
study our commonest British species, continu- 
ally new and admirable adaptations become 
apparent. 

* Dr. Lindley informs me that he knows of no species so 
named; nor is the origin of the name known at Kew. This 
species or variety differs in little or in nothing from A. Loddigesii, 
excepting in its uniform yellow colour. 


Digitized by Google 



204 


VANDEJ5. 


Chap. V. 


The rostellum of Acropera is thin and 
elongated, projecting at right angles to the 
column (see diagram, Fig. XXII., p. 179) ; 
the pedicel of the pollinium is of course 
equally long and very thin ; the disc is 
extraordinarily small, and forms a little cap, 
viscid within, fitting the extremity of the ros- 
tellum. After repeated trials I find that the 
disc does not adhere to any object until it is 
drawn quite off the tip of the rostellum ; and 
this can only be well effected by the whole 
rostellum being pushed upwards so as to slide 
over and against the touching object : when 
the small disc is thus removed it adheres^ 
well to the object. The upper sepal forms 
a hood enclosing and protecting the column. 
The labellum is an extraordinary organ, baffling 
description : it is articulated to the base of 
the column by a thin strap, so elastic and 
flexible that a breath of wind sets it vibrat- 
ing. It hangs downwards; and this seems 
to be of importance, for the plant is pen- 
dulous, and to place the labellum in this 
position the footstalk (ovarium) of each 
flower is curved into a semicircle. The two 
upper petals serve as lateral guides leading 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. Y. 


ACBOFERA. 


205 


into the hood-like upper sepal. But how all 
these parts concur in leading an insect to 
push some part of its body into the hood-like 
upper sepal and then to raise the rostellum, 
thus brushing off the little sticky disc, I do 
not in the least understand. 

The pollinium, when adhering by its disc to 
an object, undergoes the common movement of 
depression ; and this seems superfluous, for the 
stigmatic cavity lies (see diagram, Fig. XXII.) 
high up at the base of the rectangularly pro- 
jecting rostellum. But this is a comparatively 
trifling difficulty; the real difficulty lies in 
the orifice of the stigmatic chamber being so 
narrow that the pollen-masses can hardly be 
forced in. I repeatedly tried, and succeeded 
only three or four times. Even after allow- 
ing the pollen-masses to dry for an hour, and 
thus to shrink a little, I rarely succeeded in 
forcing them in. I examined young flowers 
and almost withered flowers, for I imagined 
that the mouth of the chamber at different 
periods of growth might become larger or 
smaller, for we have seen that the mouth 
actually closes up in one species of Bolbo- 
pbyllum ; but the difficulty of insertion 


Digitized by Google 



206 


YANDEiE. 


Chap. V. 


always remained the same. Now when we 
observe, that the viscid disc is extraordinarily 
small, and consequently its power of attach- 
ment not so firm as with Orchids having a 
large disc, and that the pedicel is long and 
thin, it would seem almost indispensable that 
the stigmatic chamber should he unusually 
large for the easy insertion of the pollinium. 
Far from .this being the case, it is, as just 
stated, so much contracted that rarely by any 
force could even one pollen-mass be forced in. 
Moreover the stigmatic surface, as Dr. Hooker 
also observed, is singularly little viscid ! 

I had given up the whole case as inexpli- 
cable, when it occurred to me that, although 
no instance of the separation of the two sexes 
was known in Orchids, yet that Acropera 
might be a male plant. I first examined the 
utriculi of the stigmatic surface from speci- 
mens which had been kept in spirits of wine, 
and I found them empty like little glass 
cases, but generally with a faint areola or 
nucleus visible.* Now I have looked at the 

* See R. Brown in * Linn. Transact.,’ vol. xvi. p. 710, on the 
nucleus of the stigmatic utriculi ; and Bauer’s beautiful drawing 
in Lindley’s great work. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. Y. 


ACBOPERA. 


207 


utriculi of very many Orchids, and have 
hitherto found no exception to the rule that 
spirits of wine causes a considerable quantity 
of yellowish-brown matter to coagulate within 
them. I have taken fresh Orchids and placed 
them in spirits, and in twenty-four hours have 
found the contents coagulated and the nuclei 
much darkened. More numerous observations 
would be requisite for much stress to be laid 
on this fact, but I must at present infer that 
the utriculi of Acropera are in a different con- 
dition from those of all other Orchids. The 
state of the ovarium offers better 'evidence. 

When a thin transverse slice of the ovarium 
is taken and examined under a quite weak 
power, small projections are seen on the 
three proper ovule-bearing cords or segments, 
which at first seem like true ovules. But 
when these are more closely examined, they 
are seen to consist of sub-branched, quite thin 
and transparent fringes of membrane, which 
in some specimens exhibited cellular structure 
far more plainly than in others. If these 
fringes are placentae, they are more largely 
developed than in other Orchids ; if they are 
ovules (or rather the testae of ovules) in an 


Digitized by Google 



208 


YANDEJE. 


Chap. V. 


atrophied condition, as I believe to be the 
case, they are more firmly fixed to the pla- 
centae than in other cases ; they do not exhibit 
the proper opening at their free ends, and 
no nucleus is visible ; nor were any of them 
inverted. I examined six ovaria of young 
and old flowers of the Acropera, some fresh 
and some which had been kept in spirits of 
wine, and all the ovule-bearing cords were 
nearly in the same condition. I examined, 
for comparison, the ovaria of Orchids belong- 
ing to nearly all the main Tribes, of young 
and old (but not fertilised) flowers, some of 
which were fresh, and some kept in spirits, 
and invariably the ovules presented a widely 
different appearance. 

From these several facts — namely, the nar- 
rowness of the mouth of the stigmatic chamber, 
into which the pollen-masses can hardly be 
forced, whereas the length and thinness of 
the pedicel of the rostellum, the smallness of 
the viscid disc, and the movement of depres- 
sion, all indicate the necessity of a large 
stigmatic cavity seated low down — the slight 
viscidity of the stigmatic surface — the empty 
condition of the stigmatic utriculi — and espe- 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. V. 


ACBOFEBA. 


209 


cially the condition of the ovule-bearing 
cords — lead me to infer that the plant at 
Kew, from which the many flowers of the 
Acropera luteola were at different times 
gathered, is a male plant. From having 
examined many Orchids grown in hot- 
houses,* I have no reason to believe that 
cultivation affects the female organs in the 
manner described. It is scarcely possible to 
believe that cultivation could contract the 
solid edges of the stigmatic chamber. There- 
fore I see no reason to doubt my conclusion 
on the male sex of this plant. 

What the female or hermaphrodite form of 
the Acropera luteola may prove to be — 
whether resembling in most respects the 
male, or whether it be at present named and 
masked as some distinct genus — it it impos- 
sible to say. In Acropera Loddigesii, which 
closely resembles, in all respects except in 
colour, A. luteola, I found the same almost 
insuperable difficulty in inserting the pollen- 

* In a spike of the Brazilian Goodyera discolor, sent me by 
Mr. Bateman, which had all its flowers monstrous and distorted, 
with the stigmas imperfect, I found the ovules with their nuclei 
projecting far out of the test® (exactly as figured by Brongniart 
in Epipactis in ‘ Annales des Sciences,’ tom. 24, 1831, pi. 9), and 
apparently well developed. 


Digitized by Google 



210 


YANDEX 


Chap. V. 


masses into the stigmatic cavity, but I did not 
at that time suspect the masculine nature of 
the genus, and did not examine the ovarium. 

I have now described, perhaps in too much 
detail, a few of the many contrivances by 
which the Yandese are fertilised. The re- 
lative position of the parts — friction, viscidity, 
elastic and hygrometric movements, all nicely 
related to each other — come into play. But 
all these appliances are subordinate to the 
action of insects. Without their aid, not a 
plant in this tribe, in the twenty-four genera 
examined, would set a seed. It is also evi- 
dent that, in a vast majority of cases, insects 
would withdraw the pollinia only when re- 
treating from a flower, and, carrying them 
away, would thus effect a union between 
two distinct flowers. This fact is conclusively 
shown in all those many cases in which the 
pollinia undergo a change of position, after 
removal from the rostellum, in order to stand 
in a proper direction to strike the stigma; 
for this could only be effected after the insect 
had left one flower, which would serve as the 
male, and before it visited a second flower, 
which would serve as the female. 


Digitized by Google 



( 211 ) 


CHAPTER YL 

Catasetid®, the most remarkable of all Orchids — The mechanism 
by which the pollinia of Catasetum are ejected to a distance, 
and are transported by insects — Sensitiveness of the horns of 
the rostellum — Extraordinary difference in the male, female, 
and hermaphrodite forms of Catasetum tridentatum — Mor- 
modes ignea, curious structure of flower; ejection of its pollinia 
— Cypripedium, importance of the slipper-like form of the 
labellum — Secretion of nectar — Advantage derived from 
insects being delayed in sucking the nectar — Singular ex- 
crescences on the labellum, apparently attractive to insects. 


I have reserved for separate description one 
sub-family of tbe Vandese, namely, the Cata- 
setidae, which may, I think, be considered as 
the most remarkable of all Orchids. 

I will begin with the most complex genus, 
Catasetum. A brief inspection of the flower 
shows that here, as with other Orchids, some 
mechanical aid is requisite to remove the 
pollen-masses from their receptacles, and to 
carry them to the stigmatic surface. We 
shall, moreover, presently see that the three 
following species of Catasetum are male 
plants; hence it is certain that their pollen- 
masses must be transported to female plants, 


Digitized by Google 



212 


CATASETUM. 


Chap. VL 


in order that seed may be produced. The 
pollinium is furnished with a viscid disc, in this 
genus of huge size ; but the disc, instead of 
being placed, as in other Orchids, in a position 
likely to touch and adhere to an insect visit- 
ing the flower, is turned inwards and lies close 
to the upper and back surface of a chamber, 
whioh must be called the stigmatic chamber, 
though functionless as a stigma. There is 
nothing in this chamber to attract insects; 
and even if they did enter it, it is hardly 
possible that the disc should adhere to them, 
for its viscid surface lies in contact with the 
roof of the chamber. 

How then does Nature act ? She has 
endowed these plants with, what must be 
called for want of a better term, sensitiveness, 
and with the remarkable power of forcibly 
ejecting their pollinia to a distance. Hence, 
when certain definite points of the flower are 
touched by an insect, the pollinia are shot out 
like an arrow which is not barbed, but has a 
blunt and excessively adhesive point. The 
insect, disturbed by so sharp a blow, or after 
having eaten its fill, flies sooner or later to 
a female plant, and, whilst standing in the 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


0ATA8ETUM. 


213 


same position as it did when struck, the pollen- 
bearing end of the arrow is inserted into the 
stigmatic cavity, and a mass of pollen is left 
on its viscid surface. Thus, and thus alone, 
at least three species of the genus Catasetum 
are fertilised. 

In many Orchids, as in Listera, Spiranthes, 
Orchis, we have seen that the surface of the 
rostellum is so far sensitive, that,*when touched 
or when exposed to the vapour of chloroform, 
it ruptures in certain defined lines. So it is 
in the tribe of the Catasetidse, but with this 
remarkable difference, that in Catasetum the 
rostellum is prolonged into two curved taper- 
ing horns, or, as I shall call them, antennae, 
which stand over the labellum where insects 
alight, and the excitement of a touch is 
conveyed along these antennae to the mem- 
brane which has to be ruptured; and when 
this is effected, the disc of the pollinium is 
suddenly set free. We have also seen that in 
several Yandeae the pedicels of the pollinia are 
fastened down flat, but are elastic and tend to 
spring up, so that, as soon as they are freed, 
they suddenly curl upwards, apparently fqy 
the purpose of detaching the pollen-masses 


Digitized by Google 



214 CATASETUM 8ACCATUM. Chap. VI. 

from their anther-cells. In the genus Cata- 
setum, on the other hand, the pedicels are 
fastened down in a curved position ; and when 
freed by the rupture of the attached edges of 
the disc, they straighten themselves with such 
force, that not only do they drag the balls of 
pollen and anther-cells from their places of 
attachment, but the whole pollinium is jerked 
forward, over and beyond the tips of the so- 
called antennas, to the distance of two or 
three feet. Thus, as throughout nature, pre- 
existing structures and capacities are utilised 
for new purposes. 

Catasetum saccatum .* — I will now enter on 
details. The general appearance of this species 
is represented in the following woodcut, Pig. 
XXY. ; B, being a side view of the whole 
flower, but with all the petals and sepals 
excepting the labellum cut off, and A, being 
a front view of the column. The upper sepal 
and two upper petals surround and protect 
the col umn ; the two lower sepals project out 

* I am much indebted to Mr. James Veitch of Chelsea for the 
first specimen which I saw of this Orchid ; subsequently Mr. S. 
pucker, so well known for his magnificent collection of Orchids, 
generously sent me two fine spikes, and has aided me in the 
kindest manner with other specimens. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VL 


CATASETUM SACCATUM. 


215 


at right angles. The flower stands more or 
less inclined to either side, but with the 
labellum downwards. The dull coppery and 
orange-spotted tints, — the yawning chasm in 
the great fringed labellum, — the one antenna 
stuck out with the other hanging down — give 
to these flowers a strange, lurid, and reptilian 
appearance. 

In front, • in the middle of the column 
(Fig. A), the deep stigmatic chamber ( s ) 
may be seen ; this is shown in the section 
(Fig. XXYI. C), in which all the parts are 
a little separated from each other, in order 
that the mechanism may be made intelligible. 
In the middle of the roof of the stigmatic 
chamber, far back (d, in A), the upturned 
anterior end of the viscid disc of the pollinium 
may be discerned. The disc is continuous on 
each, side with a little fringe of membrane, 
which joins the bases of the two antennae. 
Over the disc the protuberant heart-shaped 
rostellum projects, and this is closely covered 
by a thin membrane. This membrane is the 
pedicel of the pollinium, with its lower end 
attached (joed in sect. C, and in A) to the 
superior surface of the viscid disc, and with 


Digitized by Google 



216 CATASETUM SACCATUM. Chap. VI. 

Fig. XXV. 



CATASETUM SACCATUM. 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. VI. 


CATASETUM SACCATUM. 


217 


- Pig. XXVI. 



i 

CATASETUM SACCATUM. 


a, anther. 1. labellum. 

an. antennas of the rostellum. p. pollen-masses. 

d. disc of pollinium. pd or ped. pedicel of pol- 

f. filament of anther. linium. 

g. gerinen or ovarium. s. stigmatic chamber. 

A. Front view of column. 

B. Side view of flower, with all the sepals and petals removed 

except the labellum. 

0. Section through the column, with all the parts a little separated. 

D. Pollinium, upper surface. 

E. Pollinium, lower surface, which lies in contact with the 

rostellum. 

L 


Digitized by Google 



218 


CATASETUM SACCATUM. 


Chap. VI. 


its upper end running under the anther- 
cells (a), and there united to the two pollen- 
masses. In its natural position the pedicel 
lies much bowed round the protuberant 
rostellum; when freed it forcibly straightens 
itself, and at the same time its lateral edges 
curl inwards. In the bud, at an early period 
of growth, the membranous pedicel forms part 
of the rostellum, but subsequently becomes 
separated from it by the solution of a layer of 
cells. 

The pollinium when let free, and after it 
has straightened itself, is represented at D, 
Fig. XXYI. ; and its under surface, which 
lies in contact with the rostellum, is shown at 
E, with the lateral edges of the pedicel now 
much curled inwards. In this latter view, 
the clefts in the under sides of the two pollen- 
masses are shown. Within the cleft, at its 
base, a layer of strong extensible tissue is 
attached, forming the caudicle, by which the 
pollen-masses are united to the pedicel. The 
lower end of the pedicel is joined to the disc 
by a flexible hinge, which occurs in no other 
genus, so that the pedicel can play backwards 
and forwards as far as the upturned end 


Digitized by Google 



Chat. VI. 


CATASETUM SACCATUM. 


219 


(Fig. D) of the disc permits. The disc is 
large and thick ; it consists of a strong upper 
membrane, to which the pedicel is united, 
with an inferior cushion of great thickness, of 
pulpy, flocculent, and viscid matter. The 
posterior margin (or lower margin in Fig. D) 
is much the most viscid portion, and this 
necessarily first strikes any object when the 
pollinium is ejected. The viscid matter soon 
sets hard. The whole surface of the disc 
is kept damp before ejection, by resting 
against the roof of the stigmatic chamber ; 
in the section (Fig. C) it is represented, like 
the other parts, a little separated from the 
roof. 

The, connective membrane of the anther 
(a in all the figures) is produced into a spike, 
which adheres loosely to the pointed end of 
the column ; this pointed end (/, Fig. C) 
homologically is the filament of the anther. 

"The anther is thus shaped apparently to give 
leverage, so that it may be easily torn off by 
a pull at its lower end, when the pollinium 
is let free and is jerked out by the elasticity 
of its pedicel. 

The labellum stands at right angles to the 

L 2 


Digitized by Google 



220 CATASETUM SACCATUM. Chap. VL 

column, or hangs a little downwards; its 
lateral and basal lobes are turned under the 
middle portion, so that an insect can stand 
only in front of the col umn . In the middle of 
the labellum there is a deep cavity, bordered 
by crests : this cavity does not secrete nectar, 
but its walls are thick and fleshy, and have a 
slightly sweet nutritious taste. I believe, as 
we shall hereafter see, that insects visit the 
flowers to gnaw these fleshy walls and crests. 
The extremity of the left-hand antenna stands 
immediately over the cavity, and would almost 
certainly be touched by an insect visiting this 
part of the labellum for any purpose. 

The antennas are the most singular organs 
of the flower, and occur in no other genus. 
They form rigid, curved horns, tapering to a 
point. They consist . of a narrow ribbon of 
membrane, with the edges curled inwards so 
as to touch, but the edges are not united; 
hence each horn is tubular, like an adder’s 
fang, with a slit down one side. They are 
composed of numerous, much elongated, 
generally hexagonal cells, pointed at both 
ends ; and these cells (like those in most of 
the other tissues of the flower) have nuclei 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VL 


CATASETUM SACCATUM. 


221 


with nucleoli. The antennae are prolonga- 
tions of the sides of the anterior face of the 
rostellum. As the viscid disc is continuous 
with the little fringe of membrane on each 
side, and as this fringe is continuous with the 
bases of the antennae, these latter organs are 
put in direct connection with the disc. The 
pedicel of the pollinium passes between the 
bases of the two antennae. The antennae are 
not free for their whole length; but their 
exterior edges, for a considerable space, are 
firmly united to and blended with the margins 
of the stigmatic chamber. 

In all the flowers which I have examined, 

. gathered from three plants, both antennae 
occupied the same position ; but though other- 
wise alike, they do not stand symmetrically. 
The extreme part of the left-hand antenna 
bends upwards (see Fig. B, in which the 
position is shown plainer than in A), and at 
the same time a little inwards, so that its tip 
is medial and guards the entrance into the 
pit of the labellum. The right-hand antenna 
hangs downwards, with its tip turned a little 
outwards ; owing to this position, the crease 
or furrow formed by its inflexed edges is 


Digitized by Google 



222 


CATASETUM SACCATUM. 


Chap. VI. 


externally visible in this antenna; whilst in 
the other it is hidden along the under side. 
As we shall immediately see, the depending 
right-hand antenna is almost paralysed, and is 
apparently functionless. 

Now for the action of the parts. When the 
left-hand antenna of this species (or either 
antenna of the two following species) is 
touched, the edges of the upper membrane of 
the disc, which are continuously united to the 
surrounding surface, instantaneously rupture, 
and the disc is set free. The highly elastic 
pedicel then instantly flirts the heavy disc out 
of the stigmatic chamber with such force, that 
the whole pollinium is ejected, bringing away 
with it the two balls of pollen, and tearing the 
loosely attached spike-like anther from the 
top of the column. The pollinium is always 
ejected with its viscid disc foremost. I imitated 
this action with a minute strip of whalebone, 
slightly weighted at one end to represent the 
disc; and by bending it round a cylindrical 
object, gently holding at the same time the 
upper end under the smooth head of a pin, to 
represent the retarding action of the anther, 
I then let the lower end suddenly free, and 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. EJECTION OF THE POLLINIA. 


223 


the whalebone was pitched forward, like the 
pollinium of the Catasetum, with the weighted 
end foremost. 

That the disc is first jerked out, I ascertained 
by pressing with a scalpel on the middle of 
the pedicel and by then touching the antenna ; 
instantaneously out came the disc, but, owing 
to the pressure on the pedicel, the pollinium 
was not ejected. Besides the spring from the 
straightening of the pedicel, elasticity in a 
transverse direction comes into play : if a quill 
be split lengthways, and the half be forced 
longitudinally on a too thick pencil, imme- 
diately the pressure is removed the quill 
jumps off ; and an analogous action takes 
place with the pedicel of the pollinium, owing 
to the sudden inward curling of its edges. 
These combined forces suffice to eject the pol- 
linium with considerable force to the distance 
of two or three feet. Several persons have 
told me that, when touching the flowers of 
this genus in their hot-houses, the pollinia 
have struck their faces. I touched the an- 
tennae of C. callosum whilst holding the 
flower at about a yard’s distance from the 
window, and the pollinium hit the pane of 


Digitized by Google 



224 


OATAfiETDM 8ACCATUM. 


Chap. TL 


glass, and adhered to the smooth vertical 
surface by its adhesive disc. 

The following observations on the nature 
of the excitement which causes the disc to 
separate from the surrounding parts, include 
some made on the two succeeding species. 
Several flowers were sent me by post and 
railroad, and must have been much jarred, 
but had not exploded. I let two flowers fall 
from a height of two or three inches on the 
table, but the pollinia were not ejected. I cut 
off the ovarium close under the flower, and the 
sepals, and in some cases the thick labellum, 
with a crash by a pair of scissors ; but this 
violence produced no effect. Nor did deep 
pricks in various parts of the column even 
within the stigmatic chamber. A blow, 
sufficiently hard to knock off the anther 
suddenly, causes the ejection of the pollinium, 
as occurred to me once by accident. Twice 
I pressed rather hard on the pedicel, and con- 
sequently on the underlying rostellum, without 
any effect. Whilst pressing on the pedicel, I 
gently removed the anther, and then the 
pollen-bearing end of the pollinium sprang up 
from its elasticity, and this movement caused 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI EJECTION OF THE POT J. TNT A. 


225 


the disc to separate. M. Meniere,* however, 
has stated that the anther-case sometimes de- 
taches itself, or can be gently detached, with- 
out the disc separating, and that then the 
pedicel swings downwards in front of the stig- 
matic chamber. 

After trials made on fifteen flowers of three 
species, I find that no moderate degree of 
violence on any part of the flower, excepting 
the antennae, produces any effect. But when 
the right-hand antenna of C. saccatum, or 
either antenna of the two following species, 
is touched, the pollinium is instantly ejected. 
The extreme tip and the whole length of the 
antennae are sensitive. In one specimen of 
C. tridentatum a touch from a bristle sufficed ; 
in five specimens of C. saccatum a gentle touch 
from a fine needle was necessary ; but in four 
other specimens a slight blow was requisite. 
In C. tridentatum a stream of air and of cold 
water from a small pipe did not suffice ; nor in 
any case did a touch from a human hair ; so 
that the antennae are less sensitive than the 
rostellum of Listera. Such extreme sensitive- 
ness would indeed have been useless to the 

* 4 Bull, de la Soc. Bot. de France,* tom. i. 1854, p. 367. 

L 3 


Digitized by Google 



226 


CATASETUM SACCATUM. 


Chap. VI. 


plant, for we have reason to believe that the 
flowers are visited hy bulky insects. 

That the disc does not separate by the 
simple mechanical movement of the antennae is 
almost certain ; for the antennae firmly adhere 
for a considerable space to the sides of the stig- 
matic chamber, and are thus immoveably fixed 
near their bases. The flowers in some cases, 
when they first arrived, were not sensitive, but 
after the spikes had stood for a day or two in 
water they became sensitive. Whether this 
was owing to fuller maturity or to the ab- 
sorption of water, I know not. Two flowers 
of C. callosum, which were completely torpid, 
were immersed in tepid water for an hour ; 
and then the antennae became highly sensitive ; 
this indicates that the cellular tissue of the 
antennae must be turgid in order to receive 
and convey the effects of a touch ; and it would 
lead to the suspicion that a vibration is con- 
veyed along them ; if this be so, the vibration 
must be of some special nature, for ordinary 
jars of manifold greater force do not cause the 
act of rupture. Two flowers placed in hot 
water, but not so hot as to scald my fingers, 
spontaneously ejected their pollinia. The loss 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. EJECTION OF THE POLLINIA. 


227 


of a plant, on which I intended to try other ex- 
periments, prevented my ascertaining whether 
drops or vapour of acrid fluids would act. From 
these latter facts it may be doubted whether 
it can be a vibration from the gentle touch of 
a needle which is conveyed along the antennae. 
In C. tridentatum I found that the antennae 
were one inch and one-tenth of an inch in 
length, and a gentle touch from a bristle on 
the extreme tip was conveyed, as far as I 
could perceive, instantaneously throughout 
this length. I measured the length of several 
cells in the tissue composing the antennae, 
and on a rough average it appeared that the 
stimulus must travel through no less than 
from seventy to eighty closed cells. 

We may, at least, safely conclude that the 
antennae, which are characteristic of the genus 
Catasetum, are specially adapted to receive and 
convey the effects of a touch to the disc of the 
pollinium ; causing the membrane to rupture, 
and the whole poll inium to be ejected by its 
elasticity. If we required further proof, nature 
has afforded it in the case of the so-called genus 
Monachanthus, which, as we shall see, is the 
female plant of Catasetum tridentatum, and 


Digitized by Google 



228 CATASETUM SACCATUM. Chap. VI. 

has no pollinia to eject, and here the antennae 
are entirely absent. 

, I have stated that in C. saccatum the right- 
hand antenna invariably hangs down, with 
the tip turned slightly outwards, and that it is 
almost paralysed. I ground my belief on five 
trials, in which I violently hit, bent, and 
pricked this antenna, and produced no effect ; 
but immediately afterwards touching the left- 
hand antenna with much less force, the polli- 
nium was shot forth. In a sixth case a forcible 
blow on the right-hand antenna did cause the 
act of ejection, so that it is not completely 
paralysed. As this antenna does- not guard 
the labellum, which seems in all Orchids to be 
the part attractive to insects, its sensitiveness 
would be useless. 

From the large size of the flower, more 
especially of the viscid disc, and from its 
wonderful power of adhesion, we may safely 
infer that the flowers are visited by large 
insects. The viscid matter sticks so firmly 
when it has set hard, and the pedicel is so 
strong (though very thin and only one- 
twentieth of an inch in breadth at the hinge), 
that to my surprise it supported for a few 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. EJECTION OF THE POLLINIA. 


229 


seconds a weight of 1262 grains, that is 
nearly three ounces ; and it supported for 
a considerable time a slightly less weight. 
When the pollinium is shot forth, the large 
spike-like anther is generally carried with it. 
When the disc strikes a flat surface like a 
table, the momentum from the weight of the 
anther often carries the pollen-bearing end 
beyond the disc, and the pollinium is thus 
affixed in a wrong direction, supposing it to 
have been attached to an insect’s body, for 
the fertilisation of another flower. The flight 
is also often rather crooked.* But it must not 

* M. Baillon (‘ Bull, de la Soc. Bot. de France,’ tom. i. 1854, 
p. 285) states that Catasetum luridum ejects its pollinia always 
in a straight line, and in such a direction that it sticks fast to the 
bottom of the concavity of the labellum : when in this position 
he imagines that it fertilises the flower in a manner not clearly 
explained. In a subsequent paper in the same work (p. 367) 
M. M4ni&re justly disputes M. Baillon’s conclusion. He remarks 
that the anther-case is easily detached, and sometimes naturally 
detaches itself ; in this case the pollinia swing downwards by the 
elasticity of the pedicel, and the viscid disc still remains attached 
to the roof of the stigmatic chamber. M. Mdnikre then hints 
that, by the subsequent and progressive retraction of the pedicel, 
the pollen-masses might be carried into the stigmatic chamber. 
This is not possible in the three species which I have examined, 
and would be useless. But M. Mdniere himself then goes on to 
show how important insects are to the fertilisation of Orchids ; 
and apparently he infers that their agency comes into play with 
Catasetum, and that this plant does not fertilise itself. Both M. 


Digitized by Google 



230 


CATASETUM SACCATUM. 


Chap. VI. 


be forgotten that under nature the ejection 
is caused by the antennae being touched by a 
large insect standing on the labellum, which 
will thus have its head and thorax placed 
near to the anther. A rounded object thus 
held is always accurately struck in the 
middle, and, when removed with the pollinium 
adhering to it, the weight of the anther de- 
presses the hinge of the pollinium ; and in 
this position the anther readily drops off, 
leaving the balls of pollen free and in a 
proper position for the act of fertilisation. 
The utility of so forcible an ejection may be 
to drive the soft and viscid cushion of the 
disc against the hairy thorax of a large hy- 
menopterous insect, or the sculptured thorax 
of a flower-feeding beetle. When attached, 
assuredly no force which the insect could exert 
would remove the disc and pedicel ; but the 
caudicles are ruptured without much difficulty, 
and thus the balls of pollen would be left on 
the viscid stigmatic surface of a female flower. 

Baillon and M. Meniere correctly describe the curved position in 
which the elastic pedicel lies before it is set free. Neither of 
these botanists seems to be aware that the species of Catasetum 
(at least the three which I have examined) are exclusively male 
plants. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. CATASETUM CALLOSUM. 231 

Catasetum callosum . — This species* is smaller 
than the last, but resembles it in most respects. 
The edge of the labellum is covered ■with 
papillae; the pit in its middle is small, and 
behind it tliere is an elongated anvil-like 
projection, — facts which I mention from 
the relation of this form to Myanthus 
barbatus, presently to be described. The 
yellow-coloured pedicel is much bowed, and 
is joined by a hinge to the extremely viscid 
disc. When either antenna is touched, the 
pollinia; are ejected with much force. The 
two antennae stand symmetrically on each 
side of the anvil-like projection, with their 
tips lying within the pit of the labellum. 
The walls of this pit have a pleasant nutri- 
tious taste. The antennae are remarkable, 
from their whole surface being roughened 
with papillae. The plant is a male. 

Catasetum tridentatum . — The general appear- 
ance of this species, which is very different 
from that of the two former species, is repre- 
sented by Fig. XXVII., with a sepal on each 
side cut off. 

* A fine spike of flowers of this species was most kindly sent 
me by Mr. Rucker, and was named for me by Dr. Lindley. 


Digitized by Google 



232 


CATASETUM TEIDENTATUM. 


Chap. VI. 


Fig. XXVII. 



Catasetuh tbidentatuh. 


a. anther. I an. antennas. 

pd. pedicel of pollinhim." | l. labellum. 

A. Side view of flower in its natural position with the (properly) 

lower sepals cut off. 

B. Front view of column, placed upright. 

The flower stands with the labellum upper- 
most, that is in a reversed position compared 
with most Orchids. The labellum forms a 
helmet or bucket, with the distal portion 
represented by three minute points. It ' is 
clear from its position that the labellum can- 
not hold nectar ; but its walls are thick, and 
have, as in the other species, a pleasant 
nutritious taste. The stigmatic chamber, 
though functionless as a stigma, is of large 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


CATASETUM TETDENTATUM. 


233 


size. The summit of the column, and the 
spike-like anther, are not so much elongated 
as in C. saccatum. In other respects there 
is no important difference. The antennae are 
of greater length ; their tips for about one- 
twentieth of their length are roughened by 
cells produced into papillae. 

The pedicel of the pollinium is articulated 
as before by a hinge to the disc ; the anterior 
end of the disc is upturned, so that, when 
attached to an insect’s head, the pedicel can- 
not move backwards, only forwards, — a move- 
ment which apparently comes into play in 
the fertilisation of the female plant. The 
disc is, as in the other species, of large size, 
and its posterior end, which during ejection 
first strikes any object, is much more Viscid 
than the rest of the surface. This latter 
surface is drenched with a milky fluid, which 
rapidly turns brown when exposed to the 
air, and sets into a cheesy consistence. The 
upper surface of the disc consists of strong 
membrane formed of polygonal cells, each 
containing one or several balls of brown 
translucent matter. This membrane rests 
on, and adheres to, a thick cushion, formed 


Digitized by Google 



234 


CATA8ETUM TBIDENTATUM. 


Chap. VI. 


of rounded balls of brown matter (which 
lower down in the cushion become extremely 
irregular in shape) separated from each other, 
and embedded in transparent, structureless, 
highly elastic matter. This cushion towards 
the posterior end of the disc passes into the 
extremely viscid matter. This latter matter 
when consolidated is brown, translucent, and 
homogeneous. Altogether the disc presents 
a much more complex structure than in the 
other Yandese. 

I need not ' further describe this species, 
excepting the position of the antennae. They 
occupied exactly the same position in the six 
flowers examined. They do not stand sym- 
metrically. They are both sensitive, — whether 
in an equal degree I will not say. They both 
lie curled within the bucket-like labellum; 
the left-hand one stands higher up, with its 
inwardly bowed extremity in the middle ; 
the right-hand antenna lies lower down and 
crosses the whole base of the labellum, with 
its tip just projecting beyond the left margin 
of the base of the column. From the position 
of the petals and sepals, an insect visiting the 
flower would almost certainly alight on the 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VL 


CATASETUM TBIDENTATUM. 


235 


crest of the labellum ; but it could hardly 
gnaw any part of the great cavity of the 
labellum without touching one of the two 
antennae, for the left-hand one guards the 
upper part, and the right-hand one the 
lower part ; and when these are touched 
the pollinium will infallibly he ejected and 
strike the head or thorax of the insect. 

The position of the antennae in this Ca- 
tasetum may be compared with that of a man 
with his left arm raised and bent so that his 
hand stands in front of his chest, and with 
his right arm crossed lower down so that the 
fingers project just beyond his left side. In 
Catasetum callosum both arms are held lower 
down, and are extended symmetrically. In 
0. saccatum the left arm is bowed and held 
in front, as in the C. tridentatum, but rather 
lower down ; whilst the right arm hangs 
down almost paralysed, with the hand turned 
a little outwards. In every case notice will 
be given in an admirable manner, when 
an insect visits the labellum, and the time 
has at last arrived for the ejection of the 
pollinium and for its transportal to the female 
plant. 


Digitized by Google 



236 CATA8ETUM TEEDENTATUM. Chap. VI. 

Catasetum tridentatum is interesting under 
another point of view. Botanists were as- 
tonished when Sir R. Schomburgk * stated 
that he had seen three forms, believed to 
constitute three distinct genera, namely, Ca- 
tasetum tridentatum, Monachanthus viridis, 
and Myanthus barbatus, all growing on the 
same plant. Bindley remarked f that “ such 
cases shake to the foundation all our ideas of 
the stability of genera and species.” Sir R. 
Schomburgk affirms that he has seen hun- 
dreds of plants of C. tridentatum in Essequibo 
without ever finding one specimen with seeds,} 
but that he was surprised at the gigantic seed- 

* 1 Transactions of the Linnsean Soc.’ vol. xvii. p. 522. Another 
account by Dr. Lindley has appeared in the ‘ Botanical Register,’ 
fol. 1951, of a distinct species of Myanthus and Monachanthus 
appearing in the same scape: he alludes also to other cases. 
Some of the flowers were in an intermediate condition, which is 
not surprising, seeing that in dioecious plants we sometimes 
have a partial resumption of the characters of both sexes. Mr. 
Rodgers of Riverhill informs me that he imported from Demerara 
a Myanthus, but that when it flowered a second time it was 
metamorphosed into a Catasetum. Dr. Carpenter (‘ Comparative 
Physiology,’ 4th edit. p. 633) alludes to an analogous case which 
occurred at Bristol. 

t The 4 Vegetable Kingdom,’ 1853, p. 178. 

t Brongniart states (‘ Bull, de la Soc. Bot. de France, tom. ii. 
1855, p. 20) that M. Neumann, a skilful fertiliser of Orchids, 
could never succeed in fertilising Catasetum. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VL ITS SEXUAL FOBMS. 237 

vessels of the Monachanthus ; and he correctly 
remarks that “ here we have traces of sexual 
difference in ©rchideous flowers.” 

From what I had myself previously ob- 
served, I was led to examine carefully the 
female organs of C. tridentatum, callosum, 
and saccatum. In no case was the stigmatic 
surface viscid, as it is in all other Orchids 
(except as we shall see in Cypripedium), 
and as is indispensable for the securing the 
pollen-masses by the rupture of the caudicles : 
I carefully looked to this point both in young 
and old flowers of C. tridentatum. When 
the surface of the stigmatic chamber and of 
the stigmatic canal of the above-named three 
species is scraped off, after having been kept 
in spirits, it is found to be composed of utri- 
culi, with nuclei of the proper shape, but not 
nearly so numerous as with ordinary Orchids. 
The utriculi cohere more together and are 
more transparent ; I examined for comparison 
the utriculi of many kinds of Orchids which 
had been kept in spirits, and in all found 
them much less transparent. In C. triden- 
tatum, the ovarium is shorter, much less 
deeply furrowed, narrower at the base, and 


Digitized by Google 



238 CATASETUM TRIDENTATUM. Chap. VI. 

internally more solid than in the Monachan- 
thus. Again, in all ' three species of Catar 
setum the ovule-bearing cords are short ; and 
the ovules present a considerably different 
appearance, in being thinner, more trans- 
parent; and less pulpy than in the numerous 
other Orchids examined for comparison. 
They were, however, in not so completely 
an atrophied condition as in Acropera. Al- 
though they correspond so closely in general 
appearance and position with true ovules, 
perhaps I have no strict right so to designate 
them, as I was unable in any case to make 
out the opening of the testa and the included 
nucleus ; nor were the ovules ever inverted. ' 
From these several facts, namely,— the 
shortness, smoothness, and narrowness of the 
ovarium, the shortness of the ovule-bearing 
cords, the state of the ovules themselves, the 
stigmatic surface not being viscid, the empty 
condition of the utriculi, — and from Sir R. 
Schomburgk never having seen C. triden- 
tatum producing seed in its native home, we 
may confidently look at this species, as well as 
the other two species of Catasetum, as male 
plants. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


ITS SEXUAL FORMS. 


239 


Fig. xxvm. 



Myanthus babbatus. Monachanthus viridis. 


a. anther. 
an. antennas. 
1. labellum. 


p. pollen-mass, rudimentary. 
s. stigmatic cleft. 
sep . two lower sepals. 


A. Side view of Monachanthus viridis in its natural position. 

(The shading in both drawings has been added from 
M. Reiss’ drawing in the ‘ Linnasan Transactions.’) 

B. Side view of Myanthus barbatus in its natural position. 


With respect to Monachanthus viridis and 
Myanthus barbatus, the President and officers 
of the Linnaean Society have kindly permitted 
me to examine the spike bearing these two 
flowers, preserved in spirits, and sent home 


Digitized by Google 



240 


CATASETUM TBEDENTATUM. 


Chap. YI. 


by Sir R. Schomburgk. They are here re- 
presented (Fig. XXYIII.). The flower of 
the Monachanthus, like that of the Catasetum, 
grows lower side uppermost. The labellum 
is not nearly so deep, especially on the sides, 
and its edge is crenated. The other petals 
and sepals are all reflexed, and are not so 
much spotted as in the Catasetum. The bract 
at the base of the ovarium is much larger. 
The whole column, especially the filament 
and the spike-like anther, are much shorter ; 
and the rostellum is much less protuberant. 
The antennae are entirely absent, and the 
pollen-masses are rudimentary. These are 
interesting facts, from corroborating the view 
taken of the function of the antennae ; for as 
there are no proper pollinia to eject, there 
could be no use in an organ to convey the 
stimulus from a touch to the rostellum. I 
could find no trace of a viscid disc or pedicel ; 
if they exist, they must be extremely rudi- 
mentary, for there is hardly any space for the 
embedment of the disc. 

Instead of a large stigmatic chamber, there 
is a narrow transverse cleft close beneath the 
small anther. I was able to insert one of the 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


ITS SEXUAL FOKMS. 


241 


pollen-masses of the male Catasetum into this 
cleft, which from having been kept in spirits 
was lined with coagulated beads of viscid 
matter, and with utriculi. The utriculi, 
differently from those in Catasetum, were 
charged (after having been kept in spirits) 
with brown matter. The ovarium is longer, 
thicker near the base, and more plainly fur- 
rowed than in Catasetum ; the ovule-bearing 
cords are also much longer, and the ovules 
more opaque and pulpy, as in all common 
Orchids. I believe that I saw the opening at 
the partially inverted end of the testa, with 
a large nucleus projecting ; but as the speci- 
mens had been kept many years in spirits and 
were somewhat altered, I dare not speak posi- 
tively. From these facts alone it is almost cer- 
tain that Monachanthus is a female plant ; and 
Sir E. Schomburgk saw it seeding abundantly. 
Altogether this flower differs in a most remark- 
able manner from that of the male Catasetum 
tridentatum, and it is no wonder that they were 
formerly ranked as distinct genera. 

The pollen-masses offer so curious and good 
an illustration of a structure in a rudimentary 
condition that they are worth description; 

M 


Digitized by Google 



242 CATASETUM TREDENTATUM. Chap. VI. 

but first I must briefly describe the perfect 
pollen-masses of the male Catasetum. These 
may be seen at D and E, Fig. XXYI. (p. 217), 
attached to the pedicel : they consist of a large 
sheet of cemented or waxy pollen-grains, folded 
over so as to form a sack, with an open slit (E) 
along the lower surface ; into this slit cellular 
tissue enters whilst the pollen is in the course 
of development. Within the lower and pro- 
duced end of each pollen-mass a layer of highly 
elastic tissue, forming the caudicle, is attached ; 
the other end being attached to the pedicel of 
the rostellum. The exterior grains of pollen 
are more angular, have thicker walls, and are 
yellower than the interior grains. In the 
early bud the two pollen-masses are enveloped 
in two conjoined membranous sacks, which are 
soon penetrated by the two produced ends of 
the pollen-masses and by their caudicles ; and 
then the ends of the caudicles adhere to the 
pedicel. Before the flower expands the mem- 
branous sacks including the two pollen-masses 
open, and leave them resting naked on the 
back of the rostellum. 

In Monachanthus the two membranous sacks 
containing the rudimentary pollen-masses on 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VL 


ITS SEXUAL FORMS. 


243 


the contrary never open ; they easily separate 
from each other and from the anther. The 
tissue of which they are formed is thick and 
pulpy. Like most rudimentary parts, they 
vary greatly in size and in form. The in- 
cluded and therefore useless pollen-masses are 
not one-tenth of the bulk of the pollen-masses 
of the male ; they are flask-shaped (jp, p. 23 9, 
Fig. XXVIII.), with the lower and produced 
end greatly exaggerated and almost pene- 
trating through the exterior or membranous 
sack. The flask is closed, and there is no fissure 
along the lower surface. The exterior pollen- 
grains are square and have thicker walls than 
the interior grains, just as in the proper male 
pollen ; and, what is very curious, each cell 
has its nucleus. Now, R. Brown has stated * 
that in the early stages of the formation of 
the pollen - grains in ordinary Orchids a 
minute areola or nucleus is often visible ; so 
that the rudimentary pollen-grains of the 
Monachanthus apparently have retained — as 
is so general with rudiments in the animal 
kingdom — an embryonic character. Lastly, 
at the base, within the flask of pollen, there 
* ‘ Transactions of the Linnaean Soc.’ vol. xvi. p. 711. 

M 2 


Digitized by Google 



244 CATASETUM TREDENTATUM. Chap. VL 

is a little mass of brown elastic tissue, — that 
is, a vestige of a caudicle, — which runs far up 
the pointed end of the flask, hut does not (at 
least in some of the specimens) come to the 
surface, and could not have been attached to 
any part of the rostellum. These rudimentary 
caudicles are, therefore, utterly useless. 

We thus see that every single detail of 
structure which characterises the male pollen- 
masses is represented, with some parts exag- 
gerated and some parts slightly modified, by 
the mere rudiments in the female plant. Such 
cases are familiar to every observer, but can 
never be examined without renewed interest. 
At a period not far distant, naturalists will 
hear with surprise, perhaps with derision, that 
grave and learned men formerly maintained 
that such useless organs were not remnants 
retained by the principle of inheritance at 
corresponding periods of early growth, but 
were specially created and arranged in their 
proper places like dishes on a table (this is the 
comparison of a distinguished naturalist) by 
an Omnipotent hand “ to complete the scheme 
of nature.” 

We now come to the third form, Myanthus 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


ITS SEXUAL FORMS. 


245 


barbatus (Fig. XXVIII., B), often borne on 
the same plant with the two preceding 
forms. Its flower, in external appearance, 
but not in essential structure, is the most 
different of all three. It generally stands in 
a reversed position, compared with Catasetum 
and Monachanthus, that is, with the labellum 
downwards. The labellum is fringed in an 
extraordinary manner with long papillae ; it 
has a quite insignificant medial cavity, at 
the hinder margin of which a curious curved 
and flattened horn projects. The other petals 
and sepals are spotted and elongated, with 
the two lower sepals alone reflexed. The 
antennae are not so long as in the male 
C. tridentatum, and they project symmetric- 
ally on each side of the horn-like projection 
at the base of the labellum, with their tips, 
which are not roughened with papillae, almost 
entering the medial cavity. The stigmatic 
chamber is of nearly intermediate size be- 
tween that of the male and female forms : 
it is lined with utriculi charged with brown 
matter. The straight and well - furrowed 
ovarium is nearly twice as long as in Mona- 
chanthus, but is not so thick where it joins 


Digitized by Google 



246 


CATASETUM TBIDENTATUM. 


Chap. VI. 


the flower; the ovules axe not so numerous 
as in the female form, but are opaque and 
pulpy after having been kept in spirits, and 
resemble them in all respects. I believe, but 
dare not, as in the case of the Monachanthus, 
speak positively, that I saw the nucleus 
projecting from the testa. The pollinia are 
about a quarter of the size of those of the 
male Catasetum, but have a perfectly well 
developed disc and pedicel. The pollen- 
masses were lost in the specimens examined 
by me ; hut fortunately Mr. Reiss has given, 
in the Linnsean Transactions, a drawing of 
them, showing that they are of due propor- 
tional size and have the proper folded or cleft 
structure : so that there can hardly be a doubt 
that they were functionally perfect. As we 
thus see that both male and female organs are 
apparently perfect, Myanthus barbatus may 
be considered as the hermaphrodite form of 
the same species, of which the Catasetum is 
the male and Monachanthus the female. 

It is not a little singular that the her- 
maphrodite Myanthus should resemble in its 
whole structure much more closely the male 
form of two distinct species (namely, C. 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. VI. 


GENUS CATASETUM. 


247 


saccatum, and more especially C. callosum) 
than either its own male or female form. 

Finally, the genus Catasetum is interesting 
in an unusual degree in several respects. The 
separation of the sexes is unknown in other 
Orchids, excepting as we shall see probably 
in the allied genus Cycnoches and in the 
before -given case of Acropera. In Cata- 
setum we have three sexual forms, generally 
borne on separate plants, but sometimes 
mingled together ; and these three forms are 
wonderfully different from each other, much 
more different than, for instance, a peacock is 
from a peahen. But the appearance of these 
three forms on the same plant now ceases to 
be an anomaly, and can no longer be viewed 
as an unparalleled instance of variability. 

Still more interesting is this genus in its 
mechanism for fertilisation. We see a flower 
patiently waiting with its antennae stretched 
forth in a well-adapted position, ready to 
give notice whenever an insect puts its head 
into the cavity of the labellum. The female 
Monachanthus, not having pollinia to eject, 
is destitute of antennae. In the male and 
hermaphrodite forms, namely Catasetum tri- 


Digitized by Google 



248 


GENUS CATASETUM. 


Chap. VI. 


dentatum and Myanthus, tlie pollinia lie 
doubled up, like a spring, ready to be in- 
stantaneously shot forth when the antennae 
are touched ; the disc end is always projected 
foremost, and is coated with viscid matter 
which quickly sets hard and firmly affixes 
the hinged pedicel to the insect’s body. The 
insect flies from flower to flower, till at last 
it visits a female or hermaphrodite plant : it 
then inserts one of the masses of pollen into 
the stigmatic cavity. When the insect flies 
away the elastic caudicle, made weak enough 
to yield to the viscidity of the stigmatic sur- 
face, breaks, and leaves behind the pollen- 
mass ; then the pollen-tubes slowly protrude, 
penetrate the stigmatic canal, and the act of 
fertilisation is completed. Who would have 
been bold enough to have surmised that the 
propagation of a species should have depended 
on so complex, so apparently artificial, and 
yet so admirable an arrangement ? 

I have seen two other genera belonging 
to the sub-family of Catasetidae, namely, Mor- 
modes and Cycnoches ; but the latter arrived 
in a broken condition. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


MORMODES IGNEA. 


249 


Mormodes ignea . — To show how difficult it 
sometimes is to understand the manner of 
fertilisation of Orchids, I may state . that 
I had carefully examined twelve flowers,* 
trying various experiments and recording 
the results, before I could at all make out 
the meaning and action. of the several parts. 
It was plain that the pollinia were ejected, 
as in Catasetum, but how each part of the 
flower played its proper part I could not 
even conjecture. I had given up the case 
as hopeless, until, summing up my observa- 
tions, the explanation presently to he given, 
and subsequently proved by repeated experi- 
ments to be correct, suddenly occurred to me. 

The flower presents an extraordinary ap- 
pearance, and its mechanism is more curious 
even than its appearance (Fig. XXIX.). 
The base of the column is bent backwards, 
at right angles to the ovarium or footstalk, 
and then resumes an upright position to near 
its summit, where it is again bent. It is, also, 
twisted in a unique manner, so that its front 

* I must express my cordial thanks to Mr. Rucker, of West 
Hill, Wandsworth, for having lent me a plant of this Mormodes 
with two fine spikes, bearing an abundance of flowers, and for 
having allowed me to keep the plant for a considerable time. 

M 3 


Digitized by Google 



250 


MORMODES IGNEA. 


Chap. VI. 


Fig. XXIX. 



MOBMODES IGNEA. 


Lateral view of flower, with the upper sepal and the near upper 
petal cut off. 

N.B. The labellum in the drawing is a little lifted up, to show 
the depression in its surface, which ought to be pressed 
close down on the bent summit of the column. 

a. anther. 1. labellum. 

pd. pedicel of pollinium. 1 8. lower sepal. 
s. stigma. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


MORMODES IGNEA. 


251 


surface, including the anther, rostellum, and 
the upper part of the stigma, faces laterally 
to either the right or left hand in the 
flowers on the opposite sides of the spike. 
The twisted stigmatic surface, in an equally 
peculiar manner, extends down to the base 
of the column : at its upper end it forms 
a deep cavity, beneath the protuberant 
rostellum (pd in the drawing), in which 
the large viscid disc of the pollinium is 
lodged. 

The anther-case (a in the drawing) is 
elongated and triangular, closely resembling 
that of Catasetum : it does not extend up to 
the apex of the column. This apex consists 
of a thin flattened filament, which in the bud 
is straight, but before the flower expands 
becomes much bent by the pressure of the 
labellum. A group of spiral vessels runs up 
the column as far as the summit of the anther- 
case; they are then reflexed and run some 
way down the anther-case. The point of 
reflexion forms a short thread-like hinge by 
which the notched top of the anther-ease is 
articulated to the column close beneath its 
bent summit. The hinge, although less than 


Digitized by Google 



252 


MORMODES IGNEA. 


Chap. VI. 


a pin’s head in size, is of paramount import- 
ance, for it is sensitive' and conveys the 
stimulus from a touch to the disc of the 
pollinium : it serves also as a guide in the 
act of ejection. As it conveys the necessary 
stimulus to the disc, one may suspect that 
part of the tissue of the rostellum, which 
lies in close contact with the filament of the 
anther, runs up to this point ; but I could 
detect no difference in structure in com- 
parison with the same parts in Catasetum. 
The cellular tissue round the hinge is gorged 
with fluid, for a large drop exudes when the 
anther is torn off during the ejection of the 
pollinium. This gorged condition may per- 
haps facilitate the ultimate rupture of the 
hinge. 

The pollinium does not differ much from 
that of Catasetum (see Fig. XXVI. D, p. 217) : 
it lies curved round the rostellum, which 
is less protuberant than in that genus. 
The upper and broad end of the pedicel, 
however, extends beneath the pollen-masses, 
and they are attached by rather weak cau- 
dicles to a medial crest on its upper surface. 

The viscid surface of the large disc lies 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. MORMODES IGNEA. 253 

in contact with the roof of the stigmatic 
cavity, so that it cannot be touched by 
insects. The anterior end of the disc is 
furnished with a small dependent curtain 
(dimly shown in Fig. XXIX.) ; and this, 
before the act of ejection, is continuously 
joined on each side to the upper margins of 
the stigmatic depression. The pedicel is 
united to the posterior end of the disc; hut 
when the disc is freed, the lower part of the 
pedicel becomes doubly bent, so that it then 
appears as if attached to the centre of the disc 
by a hinge. 

The labellum is truly remarkable : it is 
narrowed at its base into a nearly cylindrical 
footstalk, and its sides are so much reflexed 
as almost to meet at the back. After rising 
up perpendicularly it forms an arch, over and 
behind the summit of the column, against 
which it is firmly pressed. The labellum at 
this point (even in the bud) is depressed 
into a slight cavity, which receives the ulti- 
mately bent summit of the column. This 
slight depression manifestly represents the 
large hollow, with thick fleshy walls, in the 
labellum of the several species of Catasetum 


Digitized by Google 



254 


MOBMODES IGNEA. 


Chap. VI. 


and other V andese, which serves to attract 
insects ; here, by a singular change of func- 
tion, it merely keeps the labellum in its 
proper position on the summit of the column. 
In the drawing (Fig. XXIX.) the labellum is 
represented as forcibly raised so as to show- 
the depression and the bent filameht. The 
labellum in its natural position may almost 
be compared to a huge cocked-hat, supported 
by a footstalk and placed on the head of the 
column. 

The twisting of the column, which I have 
seen in no other Orchid, causes all the im- 
portant organs of fructification to face to the 
left in the flowers on the left side of the 
spike, and to face to the right in all those 
on the right side. So that two flowers taken 
from opposite sides of the spike and held in 
the same relative position are seen to be 
twisted in opposite directions. One single 
flower, which was crowded by the others, was 
barely twisted, so that its column faeed the 
labellum. The labellum is also slightly 
twisted: for instance, in the flower figured 
which faces to the left, the midrib of the 
labellum first bends to the right hand, and 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


MOBMODES IGNEA. 


255 


then back again, but in a lesser degree, to 
the left, so as to press against the posterior 
surface of the summit of the column. The 
twisting of all the parts of the flower com- 
mences in the bud. 

The position thus acquired by the several 
organs is of the highest importance ; for if 
the column and labellum had not been 
twisted laterally, the pollinia, when shot 
forth, would have struck the overarching 
labellum and been thrown back, as actually 
occurred with the single abnormal flower 
having a nearly straight column. If all the 
organs had not been twisted in opposite 
directions on the two sides of the crowded 
spike, so as to face always to the outside, 
there would not have been a clear space for 
the ejection of the pollinia and their adhesion 
to insects. 

When the flower is mature the three sepals 
hang down, but the two upper petals remain 
nearly upright. The bases of the sepals, and 
especially of the two upper petals, are thick 
and swollen and have a yellowish tint ; they 
are so gorged, when quite mature, with fluid, 
that, when punctured by a fine glass tube, the 


Digitized by Google 



256 


MORMODES IGNEA. 


Chap. VI, 


fluid rises to some height in it by capillary 
attraction. These swollen bases, as well as 
the footstalk of the labellum, have a decidedly 
sweet and pleasant taste; and I can hardly 
doubt that they are attractive to insects, for 
no free nectar is secreted. 

I will now endeavour to show how all 
the parts of the flower are co-ordinated and 
act together. The pollinium, as in Cata- 
setum, lies bowed round the rostellum ; in 
that genus when freed it merely straightens 
itself with force, in this Mormodes something 
more takes place. If the reader will look 
forward to Fig. XXX., p. 267, he will see a 
section of the flower-bud of another species of 
Mormodes, which differs only in the shape of 
the anther and in the viscid disc having a 
much deeper dependent curtain. Now let him 
suppose the pedicel of the pollinium to be so 
elastic that when freed it not only straightens 
itself, but suddenly bends backwards with a 
reversed curvature, so as to form an irregular 
hoop ; he will then see that the exterior sur- 
face of the curtain, which is not viscid, will 
he on the anther-case, and the viscid surface 
of the disc will be on the outside of the hoop. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


MOKMODES IGNEA. 


257 


This is exactly what takes place with our 
present Mormodes. But the pollinium as- 
sumes with such force its reversed curvature 
(aided, apparently, by a transverse curling 
outwards of the two margins of the pedicel), 
that it instantaneously rebounds from the 
protuberant face of the rostellum. As the 
two pollen - masses adhere, at first, rather 
firmly to the anther-case, the latter is tom 
off by its base by the rebound; and as the 
thin hinge at the summit of the anther-case 
does not at first break, the pollinium with 
the anther-case is instantly swung upwards 
like a pendulum : but in the course of the 
upward swing the hinge yields and the 
whole body is projected perpendicularly up in 
the air, an inch or two above and close in 
front of the terminal part of the labellum. 
When no object is in the way, and the 
pollinium falls down, it generally alights and 
sticks, though not firmly, in the fold on the 
crest of the labellum, directly over the column. 
I witnessed repeatedly all that has been here 
described. 

The curtain of the disc, which, after the 
pollinium has formed itself into a hoop, lies 


Digitized by Google 



258 MOEMODES IGNEA. Chap. VI. 

on the anther-case, is of considerable service 
in preventing the viscid matter from the disc 
adhering to the anther, and thus perma- 
nently retaining the pollinium in the form of 
a hoop. This would have been fatal, as we 
shall presently see, to a subsequent movement 
in the pollinium necessary to the fertilisation 
of the flower. In some of my experiments, 
when the free action of the parts was checked, 
this did occur, and the pollinium, with the 
anther, remained glued together in the shape 
of an irregular hoop. 

I have already stated that the minute hinge 
by which the anther-case is articulated to the 
column, a little ,way beneath its bent fila- 
mentary apex, is sensitive to a touch. I tried 
four times and found that I could touch with 
some force any other part ; but when I gently 
touched this point with the finest needle, 
instantaneously the membrane which unites 
the disc to the edges of the cavity in which it 
is lodged, ruptured, and the pollinium was 
shot upwards and alighted on the crest of the 
labellum as just described. 

Now let us suppose an insect to alight on 
the crest of the labellum (and no other con- 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


MOEMODES IGNEA. 


259 


venient landing-place is afforded), and then 
to lean over in front of the column to gnaw 
or suck the bases of the petals swollen with 
sweet fluid. The weight and movements of 
the insect would press and move the labellum 
together with the bent underlying summit of 
the column ; and the latter, pressing on the 
hinge in the angle, would cause the ejection 
of the pollinium, which would infallibly 
strike the head of the insect and adhere to 
it. I tried by placing my gloved finger 
on the summit of the labellum, with the tip 
just projecting beyond its margin, and then 
gently moving my finger it was really beau- 
tiful to see how instantly the pollinium 
was projected upwards, and how accurately 
the whole viscid surface of the disc struck 
my fihger and firmly adhered to it. Never- 
theless, I doubt whether the weight and 
movement of an insect would suffice to thus 
act indirectly on the sensitive point ; but look 
at the drawing and see how probable it is 
that an insect leaning over would place its 
front legs over the edge of the labellum on 
the summit of the anther-case, and would 
thus touch the sensitive point ; the pollinium 


Digitized by Google 



260 


M0RM0DES IGNEA. 


Chap. VI. 


would then be ejected, and the viscid disc 
would certainly strike and adhere to the 
insect’s head. 

Before proceeding, it will be worth while 
to mention some of the early trials which I 
made. I pricked deeply the column in dif- 
ferent parts and the stigma, and cut off the 
petals, and even the labellum, without causing 
the ejection of the pollinium ; once, however, 
in cutting rather roughly through the thick 
footstalk of the labellum, the ejection ensued, 
no doubt caused by the filamentary summit of 
the column being disturbed. When I gently 
prised up the anther-case at its base or at 
one side, the pollinium was ejected, but then 
the sensitive hinge must necessarily have 
been bent. When the flower has long 
remained expanded and is nearly ready for 
spontaneous ejection, a slight jar on any part 
of the flower causes the action. Pressure on 
the thin pedicel, and therefore on the under- 
lying protuberant rostellum at the basal edge 
of the anther-case, is followed by the ejection 
of the pollinium ; but this is not surprising, 
as the stimulus from a touch on the sensitive 
hinge has to be conveyed through this part 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


MORMODES IGNEA. 


261 


of the rostellum to the disc. In Catasetum 
slight pressure on this point does not cause the 
ejection; but in this genus the protuberant 
part of the rostellum does not lie in the line 
of conveyed stimulus between the antennae 
and the disc. A drop of chloroform, of spirits 
of wine, and of boiling water placed on this 
part of the rostellum produced no effect ; nor, 
to my surprise, did exposure of the whole 
flower to vapour of chloroform. 

Seeing that this part of the rostellum was 
sensitive to pressure, and that the flower 
was laterally widely open, and being pre- 
occupied with the case of Catasetum, I at 
first felt convinced that insects entered the 
lower part of the flower and touched the 
rostellum. Accordingly I pressed the ros- 
tellum with variously-shaped objects, but the 
viscid disc never once well adhered to the 
object. If I used a thick needle, the pol- 
lini nm , when ejected, formed a hoop round 
it with the viscid surface outside ; if I used 
a broad flat object, the pollinium struggled 
against it and sometimes coiled itself up 
spirally, but the disc either did not adhere 
at all or very imperfectly. At the close of 


Digitized by Google 



262 


MORMODES IGNEA. 


Chap. VI. 


the twelfth trial I was in despair. The 
strange position of the labellum, perched on 
the summit of the column, ought to have 
shown me that here was the place for expe- 
riment. I ought to have scorned the notion 
that the labellum was thus placed for no 
good purpose : I neglected this plain guide, 
and for a long time completely failed to 
understand the structure of the flower. 

We have seen that when the pollinium is 
freely ejected upwards it adheres by the 
whole viscid surface of the disc to any object 
projecting beyond the edge of the labellum 
directly over tbe column. When thus at- 
tached, it forms an irregular hoop, with the 
tom-off anther-case still covering the pollen- 
masses and lying in close contact with the 
disc, but protected from adhering to it by the 
curtain. Whilst in this position the project- 
ing and bowed pedicel would effectually pre- 
vent the pollen-masses from being placed on 
the stigma of a flower, even supposing the 
anther-case to have fallen off. Now let us 
suppose the pollinium to be attached to an 
insect’s head, and observe what takes place. 
The pedicel when first separated by the act 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


M0RM0DES IGNEA. 


263 


of ejection from the rostellum is quite wet 
on its inferior surface : as this surface dries, 
the pedicel slowly straightens itself, and when 
perfectly straight the anther-case readily drops 
off. The pollen-masses are now naked, and 
they are attached by easily ruptured caudicles 
to the end of the pedicel, at the right distance 
and on that surface which would naturally 
be placed in contact with the viscid stigma 
when the insect visited another flower, so 
that every detail of structure is now perfectly 
well adapted for the act of fertilisation. 

When the anther-case drops off, it has 
performed its triple function ; namely, its 
hinge as an organ of sense, its weak attach- 
ment to the column as a guide causing the 
pollinium to be at first swung perpendicularly 
upwards, and its lower margin, together with 
the curtain of the disc, as a protection to the 
pollen-masses from being permanently glued 
to the viscid disc. 

From observations made on fifteen flowers, 
the straightening of the pedicel takes from 
about twelve to fifteen minutes. The first 
movement causing the act of ejection is due 
to elasticity ; the second slow movement, 


I 


Digitized by Google 



264 


MORMODES IGNEA. 


Chap. VI. 


which counteracts the first, is due to the dry- 
ing of the outer and convex surface ; but this 
movement differs from that observed in the 
pollinia of so many Yandese and Ophreae, 
for, when the pollinium of this Mormodes 
is placed in water, it does not recover the 
hoop-like form which it had acquired by 
elasticity. 

Mormodes ignea is an hermaphrodite. The 
pollinia are well developed. The curiously 
elongated stigmatic surface is extremely viscid 
and abounds with innumerable utriculi, the 
contents of which shrink and become coagu- 
lated after immersion for less than an hour 
in spirits of wine. When placed in spirits 
for a day, the utriculi are so acted on that 
they disappear, and this I have noticed in 
no other Orchid. The ovules, after exposure 
to spirits for a day or two, present the usual 
semi-opaque, pulpy appearance common to 
all hermaphrodite and female Orchids. From 
the unusual length of the stigmatic surface 
I expected that, if the pollinia were not 
ejected from the excitement of a touch, the 
anther-case would detach itself, and that the 
pollen-masses would swing downwards and 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


MOBMODES. 


265 


fertilise their own flowfer. Accordingly, I 
left four flowers untouched; after remaining 
expanded from eight to ten days, the elas- 
ticity of the pedicel conquered the force of 
attachment and the pollinia were spontane- 
ously ejected, hut they were always wasted. 

Although Mormodes ignea is an her- 
maphrodite, yet it must be, in fact, as truly 
dioecious as Catasetum as far as the con- 
currence of two individuals is concerned in 
the act of reproduction ; for, as it takes 
from twelve to fifteen minutes, after the act 
of ejection, before the pedicel of the pollinium 
straightens itself and the anther-case drops 
off, it is almost certain that an insect with 
the pollinium attached to its head would 
within this time leave one plant and fly to 
another. 

A second species of Mormodes, sent me, 
unnamed, by Mr. Yeitch, is very different 
from M. ignea both in general appearance 
and in structure. The yellow petals and 
sepals are reflexed ; the thick labellum is 
singularly shaped, with its upper surface 
convex, like a shallow basin turned upside 

N 


Digitized by Google 



266 


MORMODES. 


Chap. VI. 


down. The thin column is of extraordinary- 
length, and arches over the labellum. The 
appearance of the flower is like that of 
Cycnoches represented on the cover of this 
volume ; but the column in the drawing is too 
much foreshortened. 

The specimens unfortunately arrived broken ; 
but some large flower-buds, of which a section 
is here given, show the essential structure. 
We see the elastic pedicel of the pollinium 
bowed as in the last species ; but at the period 
of growth here represented, the pedicel was 
still united to the rostellum, the future line of 
separation being shown by a layer of hyaline 
tissue, indistinct towards the upper end of the 
disc. The disc is of gigantic size, and its lower 
end is produced into a great fringed curtain, 
which hangs in front of the stigmatic chamber. 
The adhesion of this disc, when mature, to any 
object is surprisingly strong. The margins 
of the stigmatic chamber on each side are 
slightly protuberant ; and these protuber- 
ances, like the antennae in Catasetum, are 
continuous with the rostellum. The anther 
is widely different in shape from that in the 
last species and in Catasetum, and apparently 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


MOBMODES. 


267 


would retain the pollen-masses with more 
force. 

Fig. XXX. 



& 


Section of the flower-bud of a Mormodes. 

a. anther. d. disc of pollinium. 

/. filament of anther. s. stigmatic chamber. 

p. pollen-mass. g. stigmatic canal leading to 

pd . pedicel of pollinium, the ovarium, 

barely separated from 
the rostellum. 

From information given me by Mr. Veitch 
it appears that, when the end of the column 
is touched, some movement takes place ; and, 
from the analogy of Catasetum, it is probable 
that the protuberances on the margin of the 

n 2 


Digitized by Google 



268 


MORMODES. 


Chap. VI. 


stigmatic chamber are sensitive. These pro- 
tuberances may be provisionally considered as 
nascent antennae. It is obvious, from the sec- 
tion given, that the disc, as long as its viscid 
surface rests against the roof of the stigmatic 
chamber, cannot adhere to any object; but 
Mr. Veitch informs me that, when he has 
touched the end of the column, the disc has 
adhered to his fingers. These facts perhaps 
suffice to show what takes place under nature. 
A large insect visits the thick and fleshy 
labellum, which is overarched by the column, 
and touches with its back the sensitive and 
protuberant edges of the stigmatic chamber : 
when thus excited the disc alone is flirted out 
and adheres to the insect’s back ; the insect 
flies away, drags the pollen-masses from 
under the anther, and carries them to another 
flower. The insect, standing in the same 
position, inserts the pollen-masses into the 
stigmatic chamber, and the flower is ferti- 
lised. 

When I received the flowers of this second 
species of Mormodes and of Cycnoches, I did 
not examine their ovaria and stigmas, for I 
knew nothing at that time about the sexual 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


ABETHUSILE. 


269 


forms of Catasetum. Mormodes ignea is an 
hermaphrodite; if the second species is an 
hermaphrodite, it cannot be fertilised, owing to 
the size of the curtain of the disc, until its own 
pollinium has been removed. With respect 
to Cycnoches, it is known, from an account 
published by Lindley,* that C. ventricosum 
produces on the same scape flowers with a 
simple labellum, others with a much segmented 
labellum, and others in an intermediate con- 
dition. From the analogous differences in the 
labellum of the sexes in Catasetum, we may 
believe that we here see the male, female, and 
hermaphrodite forms of the Cycnoches. 

Of Lindley’s fourth and sixth Tribes, viz. 
the Ophreae and Neotteae, plenty of British 
forms have been described. Of the fifth 
Tribe, the Arethusese, I have not seen any 
living flowers. Judging from statements 
with respect to three distantly allied forms 
in this tribe, mechanical aid is requisite for 
their fertilisation. Irmisch makes this remark 

* ‘Vegetable Kingdom,* 1853, p. 177. Lindley has also pub- 
lished in the ‘Botanical Register,* fol. 1951, a similar case of 
the production of two forms on the scape in another species of 
Cycnoches. 


Digitized by Google 



270 


CYPRIPEDIUM. 


Chap. VI. 


with respect to the Epipogium aphyllum.* 
Mr. Rodgers, of Sevenoaks, informs me that 
in his hot-house species of Limodorum did not 
set their fruit without aid ; and this is like- 
wise well known to be the case with the 
Vanilla. This latter genus is cultivated for 
its aromatic pods in Tahiti, Bourbon, and 
the East Indies ; but does not fruit without 
artificial aid.f This fact shows that some 
insect in its own American home is specially 
adapted for its fertilisation ; and that the 
insects of the above-named tropical regions, 
where the Vanilla flourishes, either do not 
visit the flowers, though they secrete an 
abundance of nectar, or do not visit them in 
the proper method. 

We have now arrived at Lindley’s last 
and seventh Tribe, including only one genus, 
Cypripedium, which differs from all other 
Orchids far more than any other two do 
from each other. An enormous amount of 

* ‘ Beitrage zur Biologie der Orchideen,’ 1853, s. 55. 

f For Bourbon see ‘ Bull. Soc. Bot. de France,* tom. i. 1854, 
p. 290. For Tahiti see H. A. Tilley, ‘Japan, the Amour, &c.,* 
1861, p. 375. For the East Indies see Morren in Annals and 
Mag. of Nat. Hist., 1839, voi. iii. p. 6. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


CYPRIPEDIUM. 


271 


extinction must have swept away a multitude 
of intermediate forms, and left this single 
genus, now widely disseminated, as a record 
of a former and more simple state of the great 
Orchidean Order. Cypripedium possesses no 
rostellum; all three stigmas being fully de- 
veloped, but confluent. That anther, which 
is present in all other Orchids, is here rudi- 
mentary, and is represented by a singular 
shield-like projecting body, deeply notched or 
hollowed out on its lower margin. There are 
two fertile anthers which belong to an inner 
whorl, represented in ordinary Orchids by 
various rudiments. The pollen-grains do not 
consist of three or four united granules, as 
in all other genera, excepting the degraded 
Oephalanthera. The grains are not united 
into waxy masses, nor tied together by elastic 
threads, nor furnished with a caudicle. The 
labellum is of large size, and as in all other 
Orchids is a compounded organ. 

The following remarks apply only to the 
four species which I have seen, namely, C. 
barbatum, purpuratum, insigne, and venus- 
tum. The manner of fertilisation is here 
widely different from that in all the many 


Digitized by Google 



272 


CYPRIPEDIUM. 


Chap. YI. 


before-given cases. The labellum is folded 
round the short column, so that its edges 
nearly meet along the dorsal surface; and 
its broad extremity is folded over and back- 
wards in a peculiar manner, so as to form a 


Fig. XXXI. 



CYPRIPEDIUM. 


a. anther. s. stigma. # 

a', rudimentary, shield-like l. labellum. 
anther. 

A. Flower viewed from above, exhibiting the dorsal surface, with 

the sepals and petals, excepting the labellum, partly cut 
off. The labellum is slightly depressed, so that the dorsal 
surface of the stigma is brought outside ; the edges of the 
labellum have thus become a little separated, with the toe 
depressed. 

B. Side view of column, with all the sepals and petals removed. 

sort of shoe, which closes up the end of the 
flower. Hence arises the English name of 
Ladies’-slipper. In the position in which the 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


CYPRIPEDIUM. 


273 


flower grows, and as it is here represented, 
the dorsal surface, with the edges of the 
labellum almost meeting, is uppermost. The 
stigmatic surface is slightly protuberant, and 
is not viscid ; it fronts the basal surface of 
the labellum. The margin of the upper and 
dorsal surface of the stigma can be barely dis- 
tinguished between the edges of the labellum 
and through the notch in the rudimentary, 
shield-like anther (a') ; but in the drawing 
( s , Fig. A) this margin is brought outside the 
edges of the labellum by their depression ; the 
toe also of the labellum is a little bent down, 
so that the flower is represented as rather 
more open than it really is. The edges of the 
pollen-masses of the two lateral anthers (a) 
can be seen lying low down within the label- 
lum and projecting a little beyond the column. 
The grains of pollen are immersed in, and 
coated by, viscid fluid, which is so glutinous 
that it can be drawn out into threads. As 
the two anthers stand behind and above 
the lower convex surface (see Fig. B) of the 
stigma, it is impossible that the glutinous 
pollen can get on to this, the fertile surface, 
without mechanical aid. 

n 3 


Digitized by Google 



274 


CYPRIPEDIUM. 


Chap. VI. 


An insect could reach the extremity of the 
label lum, or the toe of the slipper, through 
the longitudinal dorsal slit; hut according to 
all analogy the basal portion in front of the 
stigma would be the most attractive part. 
Now, as the flower is closed at the end, owing 
to the toe of the labellum being upturned, and 
as the dorsal surface of the stigma, together 
with the large shield-like rudimentary anther, 
almost close the basal part of the medial slit, 
two convenient passages alone are left for an 
insect to reach with its proboscis the lower 
part of the labellum ; namely, directly over 
and close outside the two lateral anthers. If 
an insect were thus to act, and it could hardly 
act in any other way, it would infallibly 
get its proboscis smeared with the glutinous 
pollen, as I found to occur with a bristle thus 
inserted. When the bristle smeared with 
pollen was pushed further into the flower, 
especially if pushed in by the little notch 
outside the anther, some of the glutinous 
pollen was generally left on the slightly 
convex stigmatic surface. The proboscis of 
an insect would effect this latter operation 
better than a bristle, owing to its flexibility 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


CYPRIPEDIUM. 


275 


and power of movement. Thus an insect 
would place either the flower’s own pollen 
on to the stigma, or, flying away, would 
carry the pollen to another flower. Which 
of these two contingencies commonly occurs, 
will depend on whether the insect first inserts 
its proboscis directly over the anther, or out- 
side by the little notch. 

We thus see how important, or rather how 
necessary for the fertilisation of the plant, 
is the curious slipper-like shape of the label- 
lum, in leading insects to insert their pro- 
bosces by the lateral passages close to the 
anthers. The upper, shield-like, rudimentary 
anther is equally, and in the same manner, 
necessary. 

The economy shown by nature in her re- 
sources is striking : in all Orchids seen by 
me, excepting Cypripedium, the stigma is 
more or less concave and is viscid, so as to 
secure the dry pollen, brought to it by means 
of the viscid matter secreted by the modified 
stigma, called the rostellum. In Cypripedium 
alone the pollen is glutinous, and takes on 
itself the function of viscidity, which in other 
Orchids belongs to both the true stigma and 


Digitized by Google 



276 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


Chap. VI. 


the modified stigma or rostellum. The stigma 
itself, on the other hand, in Cypripedium en- 
tirely loses its viscidity, and at the same time 
becomes slightly convex, so as more effectually 
to rub off the glutinous pollen adhering to an 
insect’s proboscis. Thus the act of fertilisar 
tion is completed, and there is no superfluity 
in the means employed. 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 

Many exotic Orchids secrete plenty of 
nectar in our hot-houses. I have found the 
horn-like nectaries of Aerides filled with 
fluid ; and Mr. Rodgers, of Sevenoaks, in- 
forms me that he has taken crystals of sugar 
of considerable size from the nectary of A. 
cornutum. In nearly all the flowers of 
Angraecum distichum sent me from Kew, 
insects had bitten holes through the nectaries, 
so as to get more readily at the nectar : if 
insects were invariably to follow this bad 
habit in the plant’s native African home, 
undoubtedly it would soon become extinct, 
for it would never produce a seed. The 
nectar-secreting organs present great diver- 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


277 


sity in structure and position in the various 
genera; but apparently always form part of 
the base of the labellum. In Dendrobium 
chrysanthum the nectary consists of a shal- 
low saucer ; in Evelyna of two large united 
cellular balls; in Bolbophyllum cupreum of 
a medial furrow. In Cattleya the nectary 
penetrates the ovarium ; in Angraecum ses- 
quipedale it attains, as we have seen, the 
astonishing length of above eleven inches ; 
but I will not detail the several cases. The 
nectar - secreting apparatus of Coryanthes, 
however, is so remarkable, as described by 
M. Meniere,* that it must not be quite passed 
over : two little horns near the straplike 
junction of the labellum with the base of 
the column, secrete so much limpid nectar, 
with a slightly sweet taste, that it slowly 
drops down. M. Meniere estimates the total 
quantity secreted by a single flower at about 
an English ounce. But the remarkable point 
is that the deeply-hollowed end of the label- 
lum hangs some way down, exactly beneath 
the two little horns, and catches the drops as 

* * Bulletin de la Soc. Bot. de France,’ tom. ii. 1855, 
p. 351. 


Digitized by Google 



278 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


Chap. VI. 


they fall, just like a bucket suspended some 
way beneath a dripping spring of water. 

Although the secretion of nectar is of the 
highest importance to Orchids by attracting 
insects, which are indispensable to their fer- 
tilisation, yet it would seem that the secre- 
tion acts also, at least in some cases, as an 
excretion. One may suspect this to be the 
case with the Coryanthes from the immense 
quantity secreted; but the bracteae of some 
Orchids have been observed * to secrete 
nectar; and as these lie outside the flower, 
the secretion cannot serve any useful purpose 
by attracting insects. Mr. Rodgers informs 
me that he has observed much nectar secreted 
at the base of the footstalks of the flowers in 
Vanilla. It is in perfect accordance with the 
scheme of nature, as worked out by natural 
selection, that matter excreted to free the sys- 
tem from superfluous or injurious substances 

* J. G. Kurr, ‘ Ueber die Bedeutung der Nektarien,’ 1833, 
8. 28, on the authority of Treviranus and Curt. Sprengel. The 
calyx of certain species of Iris also (idem, s. 25) secretes nectar. 
I have observed much nectar secreted by the stipules of Vida 
sativa and faba, which is eagerly collected by bees. Glands on 
the under side of the leaves of the common laurel also secrete 
nectar, which, though the drops are extremely minute, is sought 
for by various insects. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


279 


should be utilised for purposes of the highest 
importance. To give an example in strong 
contrast with flowers and honey, the larvae of 
certain beetles (Cassidae, &c.) use their own 
excrement to make an umbrella-like protection 
for their tender bodies. 

In Cypripedium the slipper-like labellum 
seems well adapted to hold and collect nectar ; 
but I have found no such collection in the 
four previously named species; nor does C. 
calceolus ever secrete nectar according to 
Kurr.* The labellum, however, in these four 
species is studded with hairs; and I have 
almost always noticed on their tips little 
drops of slightly viscid fluid, which if sweet 
would certainly suffice to attract insects ; this 
viscid fluid when dried forms a brittle crust, 
but I could not perceive in it any traces of 
crystallisation. 

It may be remembered that in the first 
chapter evidence was given proving that 
nectar is never found within the spur-like 
nectary of several species of Orchis, but that 
between its two membranes there is an 
abundant supply of fluid. In all the species 
* * Bedeutung der Nektarien,* 1833, s. 29. 


Digitized by Google 



280 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


Chap. VI. 


thus characterised the viscid matter of the 
disc of the pollinium sets hard in a minute 
or two, and it would be an advantage to the 
plant if an insect were delayed in getting the 
nectar by having to puncture the nectary at 
several points, so that time should be allowed 
for the setting of the viscid matter. On the 
other hand, in all the Ophreae which have 
nectar ready stored within the nectary the 
viscid matter does not rapidly set hard, and 
there would be no advantage in insects being 
delayed. 

In the case of cultivated exotic Orchids 
which have a nectary, without nectar, it is of 
course impossible to feel sure that it would be 
empty under more natural conditions. Nor 
have I made many comparative observations 
on the rate of setting of the viscid matter of 
the disc in exotic forms. Nevertheless it seems 
that certain Vandeae are in the same predica- 
ment as our British species of Orchis ; thus 
Calanthe masuca has a very long nectary, 
which in all the specimens examined was 
internally quite dry, and was inhabited by 
powdery Cocci ; but in the intercellular spaces 
between its two coats there was much fluid ; 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VL 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


281 


in this species the viscid matter of the disc, 
after its surface had been disturbed, entirely 
lost its adhesiveness in two minutes. In an 
Oncidium the disc, similarly disturbed, became 
dry in one minute and a half ; in an Odon- 
toglossum in two minutes ; neither of these 
Orchids have free nectar. On the other hand, 
in Angraecum sesquipedale, which has free 
nectar stored within the lower end of its nec- 
tary, the disc of the pollinium, removed from 
the plant, and with its surface disturbed, was 
strongly adhesive after forty-eight hours. 

Sarcanthus teritifolius offers a more curious 
case. The disc quite lost its viscidity, after 
the removal of the pollinium from the rostel- 
lum, in less than three minutes. Hence it 
might have been expected that fluid would 
have occurred in the intercellular spaces of the 
nectary, but none within the nectary ; never- 
theless there was fluid in both places, so that 
we here see the two conditions of the nectar- 
secreting organs combined in the same flower. 
It might perhaps have been thought that 
insects would have rapidly sucked the free 
nectar and neglected that between the two 
coats. But I strongly suspect that insects are 


Digitized by Google 



282 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


Chap. VI. 


delayed in sucking the free nectar, so as to 
allow the viscid matter to set hard, by totally 
different means. In this Orchid the labellum 
with its nectary is an extraordinary organ. I 
wished to have had a drawing of its structure ; 
but found that it was as hopeless as to give 
one of the wards of a complicated lock : even 
the skilful Bauer, with numerous figures and 
sections on a large scale, hardly makes the 
structure intelligible. So complicated is the 
passage that I failed in repeated attempts to 
pass a bristle from the outside of the flower 
into the nectar-receptacle; or in a reversed 
direction from the cut-off end of the nectar- 
receptacle to the outside. No doubt an insect 
with a voluntarily flexible proboscis could 
wind it through the passages, and thus get 
the nectar ; but in effecting this, some delay 
would be caused ; and time would be allowed 
for the curious square viscid disc to become 
securely cemented to the insect’s head or body. 

As in Epipactis the cup at the base of 
the labellum serves as a nectar-receptacle, I 
expected to find that the analogous cup in 
Stanhopea, Acropera, &c., would serve for the 
same purpose ; but I could never find a drop 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. SECBETION OP NECTAR. 283 

of nectar in it. According, also, to M. Meni&re,* 
this is never the case in these genera, nor in 
G-ongora, Cirrhaea, and others. In Catasetum 
tridentatum, and in its female the Monachan- 
thus, we see that the upturned cup cannot pos- 
sibly serve as a nectar-receptacle. What then 
attracts insects to these flowers ? That they must 
be attracted is certain ; more especially in the 
case of Catasetum, in which the sexes stand 
on separate plants. In many genera of Yan- 
deae there is no trace of any nectar-secreting 
organ or receptacle ; but in all these cases, as 
far as I have seen, the labellum is either thick 
and fleshy or is furnished with excrescences. 
The labellum, for instance, of Oncidium and 
of Odontoglossum offers all sorts of singular 
protuberances. In Calanthe we have (Fig. 
XXIY.) a cluster of odd little spherical warts 
on the labellum, together with an extremely 
long nectary, which does not include nectar ; 
in Eulophia viridis the short nectary is in the 
same condition, and the labellum is covered 
with longitudinal and fimbriated ridges. In 
some also of the Ophreaa, which have no nec- 
tary, the labellum, as in the Fly Orphys, has two 

* ‘ Bulletin Bot. Soc. de France,’ tom. ii. 1855, p. 352. 


Digitized by Google 



284 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


Chap. VI. 


shining protuberances at its base, placed be- 
neath the two pouches. Lindley has remarked 
that the use of these strange and diversified 
excrescences is quite unknown. 

From the position, relatively to the viscid 
disc of the pollinium, which these excrescences 
hold, and from the absence of nectar, it seems 
to me highly probable that they afford food, 
and thus attract either Hymenoptera or flower- 
feeding Coleoptera. I mention this belief 
because a close examination of the flowers of 
the Y andese, which in their native country 
have had their pollinia removed, would soon 
settle this point There is no more inherent 
improhablity in a flower being habitually 
fertilised by an insect coming to feed on the 
labellum, than in seeds being habitually dis- 
seminated by birds attracted by the sweet 
pulp in which they are embedded. But I am 
bound to state that Dr. Percy had the thick 
and furrowed labellum of a Warrea analysed 
for me, by fermentation over mercury, and it 
gave no evidence of containing more sacchar 
rine matter than the other petals. On the other 
hand, the thick labellum of Catasetum, and ' 
even the bases of the upper petals in Mormodes 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VI. 


SECRETION OF NECTAR. 


285 


ignea, had, as previously stated, a slightly 
sweet, rather pleasant, and nutritious taste. 

We have now done with exotic Orchids. 
To me the study has been most interesting of 
these wonderful and often beautiful produc- 
tions, so unlike common flowers, with all 
their many adaptations, with parts capable of 
movement, and other parts endowed with 
something so like, though no doubt really 
different from, sensibility. The flowers of 
Orchids, in their strange and endless diversity 
of shape, may be compared with the great 
vertebrate class of Fish, or still more appro- 
priately with tropical Homopterous insects, 
which seem to us in our ignorance as if 
modelled by the wildest caprice. 


Digitized by Google 



( 286 ) 


CHAPTER VII. 

Homologies of Orchid-flowers — The great modification which 
they have undergone — Gradation of organs, of the rostellum, 
of the pollen-masses — Formation of the caudicle — Genea- 
logical affinities — Mechanism of the movement of the pol- 
linia — Uses of the petals — Production of seed — Importance 
of trifling details of structure — Cause of the vast diversity of 
structure for the same general purpose — Cause of the perfec- 
tion of the contrivances in Orchids — Summary on insect- 
agency — Nature abhors perpetual self-fertilisation. 

The theoretical structure of few flowers has 
been so largely discussed as that of Orchids ; 
nor is this surprising, seeing how unlike 
they are to common flowers. No group of 
organic beings can be well understood until 
their homologies are made out ; that is, until 
the general pattern, or, as it is often called, 
the ideal type, of the several members of 
the group is intelligible. No one member 
may now exist exhibiting the full pattern; 
but this does not make the subject less impor- 
tant to the naturalist, — probably makes it 
more important for the full understanding of 
the group. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. 


HOMOLOGIES OF ORCHIDS. 


287 


The homologies of any being, or group of 
beings, can be most surely made out by tracing 
their embryological development when that is 
possible ; or by the discovery of organs in a 
rudimentary condition ; or by tracing, through 
a long series of beings, a close gradation from 
one part to another, until the two parts, or 
organs, employed for widely different func- 
tions, and most unlike each other, can be 
joined by a succession of short links. No 
instance is ' known of a close gradation be- 
tween two organs, unless they be homologic- 
ally one and the same organ. 

The importance of the science of Homology 
rests on its giving us the key-note of the 
possible amount of difference in plan within 
any group ; it allows us to class under proper 
heads the most diversified organs ; it shows 
us gradations which would otherwise have 
been overlooked, and thus aids us in our 
classification ; it explains many monstrosi- 
ties; it leads to the detection of obscure and 
hidden parts, or mere vestiges of parts, and 
shows us the meaning of rudiments. Besides 
these practical uses, to the naturalist who 
believes in the gradual modification of organic 


Digitized by Google 



288 


HOMOLOGIES OF ORCHIDS. 


Chap. VII. 


beings, the science of Homology clears away 
the mist from such terms as the scheme of 
nature, ideal types, archetypal patterns or 
ideas, &c. ; for these terms come to express 
real facts. The naturalist, thus guided, sees 
that all homologous parts or organs, how- 
ever much diversified, are modifications of 
one and the same ancestral organ ; in tracing 
existing gradations he gains a clue in tracing, 
as far as that is possible, the probable course 
of modification during a long line of genera- 
tions. He may • feel assured that, whether 
he follows embryological development, or 
searches for the merest rudiments, or traces 
gradations between the most different beings, 
he is pursuing the same object by different 
routes, and is tending towards the knowledge 
of the actual progenitor of the group, as it 
once grew and lived. Thus the subject of 
Homology gains largely in interest. 

Although this subject, under whatever 
aspect it be viewed, will always be most inte- 
resting to the student of nature, it is very 
doubtful whether the following details on the 
homological nature of the flowers of Orchids 
will be endured by the general reader. If, 


Digitized by 


Google 



Chap. VII. 


HOMOLOGIES OF ORCHIDS. 


289 


indeed, he should care to see how much light, 
though far from perfect, homology throws on 
a subject, this will, perhaps, be nearly as 
good an instance as could be given. He will 
see how curiously a flower may be moulded 
out of many separate organs, — how perfect 
the cohesion of primordially distinct parts 
may become, — how organs may be used for 
purposes widely different from their proper 
function, — how other organs may be entirely 
suppressed, or leave mere useless emblems of 
their former existence. Finally, he will see 
how enormous has been the total amount of 
change from the simple parental or typical 
structure which these flowers have undergone. 

Robert Brown first clearly discussed the 
homologies of Orchids,* and left, as might be 
expected, little to be done. Guided by the 
general structure of monocotyledonous plants, 
and by various considerations, he propounded 
the doctrine that the flower properly consists 
of three sepals, three petals, six anthers in two 
whorls or circles (of which only one anther 
belonging to the outer whorl is perfect in all 

* I believe his latest views are given in his celebrated paper, read 
Nov. 1-15, 1831, in the 4 Linnaean Transactions,’ vol. xvi. p. 685. 

0 


Digitized by Google 



290 


HOMOLOGIES OF ORCHIDS. 


Chap. VH. 


common forms), and of three pistils, with one 
of them modified into the rostellum. These 
fifteen organs are arranged as usual, alter- 
nately, three within three, in five whorls. 
Of the existence of three of the anthers in 
two whorls, R. Brown offers no sufficient 
evidence, but believes that they are combined 
with the labellum, whenever that organ pre- 
sents crests or ridges. In these views Brown 
is followed by the greatest living authority 
on Orchids, namely, Lindley. 

Brown traced the spiral vessels in the 
flower by making transverse sections,* and 
only occasionally, as far as it appears, by 
longitudinal sections. As spiral vessels are 
developed at a very early period of growth, 
which always gives much value to an organ 
in making out homologies ; and as they are 
apparently of high functional importance, 
though their function is not well known, it 

* ‘ Linn. Transact.’ vol. xvi. p. 696-701. Link in his ‘ Bemer- 
kungen iiber der Bau der Orchideen ’ (‘ Botanische Zeitung,’ 1849, 
s. 745) seems to have also trusted to transverse sections. Had 
he traced the vessels upwards I cannot believe that he would 
have disputed Brown’s view of the nature of the two anthers in 
Cypripedium. Brongniart in his admirable paper (‘ Annales des 
Sciences Nat.’ tom. xxiv. 1831) incidentally shows the course of 
some of the spiral vessels. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. YU. 


HOMOLOGIES OF OBCHIDS. 


291 


appeared to me, guided' also by the advice 
of Dr. Hooker, to be worth while to trace 
upwards all the spiral vessels from the six 
groups surrounding the ovarium. Of the six 
ovarian groups of vessels, I will call (though 
not correctly) that under the labellum the 
anterior group ; that under the upper sepal 
the posterior group ; and the two groups on 
both sides of the ovarium the antero-lateral 
and postero-lateral groups. 

The result of my dissections is given in 
the following diagram. The fifteen little 
circles represent so many groups of spiral 
vessels, in every case traced down to one of 
the six large ovarian groups. They alternate 
in five whorls, as represented ; but I have 
not attempted to give the actual distances at 
which they stand apart. In order to guide 
the eye, the three central groups running to 
the three pistils are connected by a triangle. 

Five groups of vessels run into the three 
sepals and two upper petals; three enter the 
labellum ; and seven run up the great central 
column. These vessels are arranged, as may 
be seen, in rays proceeding from the axis of 
the flower ; and all on the same ray invari- 

o 2 


Digitized by Google 



292 


HOMOLOGIES OF OBCHIDS. 


Chap. VH. 


ably run into the same ovarian group : thus 
the vessels supplying the upper sepal, the 

Fig. XXXII. 

Upper or posterior sepal. 



Labeilum. 

Section of the floweb of an Orchid. 
The little circles show the position of the spiral vessels 


S S. Stigmas ; Sr, stigma modified into the rostellum. 

Ai. Fertile anther of the outer whorl ; A2 A3, anthers of the same 
whorl combined with the lower petal, forming the labeilum. 
a\ a 2 . Rudimentary anthers of the inner whorl (fertile in Cypripe- 
dium), generally forming the clinandrum ; 03, third anther of 
the same whorl, when present, forming the front of the column. 

fertile anther (A 1), and the upper pistil or 
stigma (i. e. rostellum S r), all unite and form 
the posterior ovarian group. Again, the 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. HOMOLOGIES OF ORCHIDS. 293 

vessels supplying one of the lower sepals, the 
comer of the labellum, and one of the two 
stigmas (S), unite and form the antero-lateral 
group ; and so with all the other vessels. 

Hence, if the existence of groups of spiral 
vessels can be trusted, and Dr. Hooker informs 
me that he has never known them to speak 
falsely, the flower of an Orchid certainly 
consists of fifteen organs, in a much modified 
and confluent condition. We see three stigmas, 
with the two lower ones generally confluent, 
and with the upper one modified into the 
rostellum. We see six stamens, arranged in 
two whorls, with one alone (A 1) generally 
fertile. In Cypripedium, however, two 
stamens of the inner whorl ( a 1 and a 2) are 
fertile, and in other Orchids these two are 
represented in various ways more plainly 
than the remaining stamens. The third stamen 
of the inner whorl (a 3), when its vessels 
can be traced, forms the front of the column : 
Brown thought that it often formed a medial 
excrescence, or ridge, cohering to the labellum ; 
or, in the case of Glossodia,* a filamentous 

* See Brown’s observations under Apostasia in Wallich’s 
‘ Plantse Asiatic® rariores,’ 1830, p. 74. 


Digitized by Google 



294 


HOMOLOGIES OF ORCHIDS. 


Chap. YII. 


organ, freely projecting in front of the 
labellum. The former conclusion does not 
agree with my dissections ; about Glossodia I 
know nothing. The two infertile stamens of 
the outer whorl (A 2, A 3) were believed by 
Brown to be sometimes represented by lateral 
excrescences on the labellum; I find these 
vessels invariably present in the labellum of 
every Orchid examined, — even when the label- 
lum is very narrow, or quite simple, as in 
Malaxis, Herminium, and Habenaria. 

We thus see that an Orchid-flower consists 
of five simple parts, namely, three sepals and 
two petals ; and of two compounded parts, 
namely, the column and labellum. The 
column is formed of three pistils, and gene- 
rally of four stamens, all completely conflu- 
ent. The labellum is formed of one petal and 
two petaloid stamens of the outer whorl, like- 
wise completely confluent. I may remark, as 
making this fact more probable, that in the 
allied Marantaceae the stamens, even the fer- 
tile stamens, are often petaloid, and partially 
cohere. This view of the nature of the label- 
lum explains its large size, its frequently 
tripartite form, and especially its manner of 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VIE. 


HOMOLOGIES OF OBCHIDS. 


295 


coherence to the column, unlike that of the 
other petals.* As rudimentary organs vary 
much, we can thus also probably understand 
the variability, which Dr. Hooker informs 
me is characteristic of the excrescences on 
the labellum. In some Orchids which have a 
spur-like nectary, the two sides are apparently 
formed by the two modified stamens ; thus 
in Gymnadenia conopsea (but not in Orchis 
pyramidalis), the vessels, proceeding from the 
antero-lateral ovarian group, run down the 
sides of the nectary ; those from the anterior 
group run down the exact middle of the 
nectary, then returning up the opposite side 
form the mid-rib of the labellum. The exten- 
sion of these lateral elements of the nectary 
apparently explains the tendency, as in Ca- 
lanthe, Orchis morio, &c., to the bifurcation 
of its extremity. 

The number, position, and course of the 
spiral vessels exhibited in the diagram (Fig. 
XXXII.), were observed in some Yandese 
and Epidendrese.f In the Malaxeae all were 

* Link remarks on the manner of coherence of the labellum to 
the column in his ‘ Bemerkungen , in ‘Bot. Zeitung,’ 1849, s. 745. 

t It may be advisable to give a few details on the flowers which 
I dissected ; but I looked to special points, such as the course 


Digitized by Google 



296 


HOMOLOGIES OP ORCHIDS. 


Chap. VII. 


observed excepting a 3, which is the most 
difficult of all to trace, and which apparently 

of the vessels in the labellum, in many cases not worth here 
giving. In the Vande® I traced all the vessels in Catasetum 
tridentatum and mccatum ; the great group of vessels going to the 
rostellum separate (as likewise in Monnodes) from the posterior 
ovarian group, beneath the bifurcation supplying the upper sepal 
and fertile anther ; the anterior ovarian group runs a little way 
along the labellum before bifurcating, and sending a group (as) up 
the front of the column ; the vessels proceeding from the postero- 
lateral group run up the back of the column, on each side of 
those running to the fertile anther, and do not go to the edges of 
the clinandrum. In Acropera luteola the base of the column, 
where the labellum is attached, is much produced, and the vessels 
of the whole anterior ovarian group are similarly produced ; those 
(a 8 ) going up the front of the column are abruptly reflected 
back ; the vessels at the point of reflexion are curiously hardened, 
flattened, and produced into odd crests and points. In an Oncidium 
I traced the vessels Sr to the viscid gland of the pollinium. In the 
Epidendrese I traced all the vessels in aCattleya ; and all in Evelyna 
carivata except a„ which I did not search for. In the Malaxeae 
I traced all in Liparis pendula except a,, which I do not believe 
is present. In Malaxis paludosa I traced nearly all the vessels. 
In Cypripedium barbatum and pwrpuratwm I traced all except a„ 
which I am nearly sure does not exist. In the Neotteae I traced 
in Cephalanthera grandiflora all the vessels, excepting that to the 
aborted rostellum and those to the two auricles a x and a fi , which 
were certainly absent. In Epipactis I traced all excepting a l9 a*, 
and a 3 , which are certainly absent. In Spiranthes autumnalis 
the vessel Sr runs to the bottom of the fork of the rostellum : 
there are no vessels to the membranes of the clinandrum in this 
Orchid nor in Qoodyera . In none of the Ophrese do the vessels a,, 
a 8 , and a 8 occur. In Orchis pyramidalis I traced all the others, 
including two to the two separate stigmas : in this species the 
contrast between the vessels of the labellum and of the other 
sepals and petals is striking, as in the latter the vessels do not 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. 


HOMOLOGIES OP OBCHIDS. 


297 


is ofitenest absent. In the Cypripedese, again, 
all were traced except a 3,* which, I feel 
pretty sure, was here really absent : in this 
tribe the stamen (A 1) is represented by a 
conspicuous shield-like rudiment, and a 1 and 
a 2 are developed into two fertile anthers. In 
the Ophreae and Neotteae all were traced, with 

branch, whilst the labellum has three vessels, the lateral ones 
running of course into the antero-lateral ovarian group. In 
Gymnadenia conopsea I traced all the vessels ; but I am not sure 
whether the vessels supplying the sides of the upper sepal do not, 
as in the allied Habenaria, wander from their proper course and 
enter the postero-lateral ovarian group : the vessel Sr, going to 
the rostellum, enters the little folded crest of membrane, which 
projects between the bases of the anther-cells. Lastly, in Haben- 
aria cMorantha I traced all the vessels, excepting of course the 
three of the inner staminal whorl, and I looked carefully for a, : 
the vessel supplying the fertile anther runs up the connective 
membrane betweeft the two anther-cells, but does not bifurcate : 
the vessel to the rostellum runs up to the top of the shoulder or 
ledge beneath the connective membrane of the anther, but does 
not bifurcate and extend to the two widely-separated viscid 
discs. 

* From Irmisch’s (* Beitrage zur Biologic der Orchideen,’ 1853, 
s. 78 and' 42) description of the development of the flower-bud 
of Cypripedium, it would appear that there is a tendency to the 
formation of a free filament in front of the labellum, as in the 
case of Glossodia before mentioned ; and this will perhaps account 
for the absence of spiral vessels, proceeding from the anterior 
ovarian group, and coalescing with the column. In Uropedium, 
a genus which A. Brongniart (* Annal. des. Sc. Nat.,’ 3rd series, 
Bot. tom. xiii. p. 114) considers closely allied to, and even perhaps 
a monstrosity of, Cypripedium, a third fertile anther occupies this 
same exact position. 

o 3 


Digitized by Google 



298 


HOMOLOGIES OF ORCHIDS. 


Chap. VJLI. 


the important exception of the vessels belong- 
ing to the three stamens (a 1, a 2, and a 3) 
of the inner whorl. In Cephalanthera grandi- 
flora, however, I clearly saw a 3 proceeding 
* form the anterior ovarian group, and running 
up the front of the column ; this anomalous 
member of the Neotteae has no rostellum, and 
the vessel marked S r in the diagram was 
entirely absent, though seen in every other 
Orchid. 

Although in no true Orchid, excepting Cy- 
pripedium, the two anthers ( a 1 and a 2) of 
the inner whorl are fully developed, their 
rudiments are generally present and are often 
utilised; for they generally form the mem- 
branous sides of the clinandrum, or cup on 
the summit of the column, which includes 
and protects the pollen - masses. These 
rudiments thus aid their fertile brother- 
anther. In the young flower-bud of Malaxis 
paludosa, the close resemblance between 
the membranes of the clinandrum and the 
fertile anther, in shape, texture, and in the 
height to which the spiral vessels extend, is 
most striking : it is impossible to doubt that 
in these two membranes we see two rudimen- 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. 


HOMOLOGIES OF ORCHIDS. 


299 


tary anthers. In Evelyna, one of the Epiden- 
drese, the clinandrum was similarly formed, 
as were the horns of the clinandrum in 
Masdevallia, which likewise serve to keep the 
labellum at the proper distance from the 
column. In Liparis pendula and some other 
forms, these two rudimentary anthers formed 
not only the clinandrum, but likewise wings, 
projecting on each side of the entrance to the 
stigmatic cavity, and serving as guides for the 
insertion of the pollen-masses. In Acropera 
and Stanhopea, as far as I could make out, 
the membranous borders of the column, down 
to its base, were also thus formed ; but in 
other cases, as in Cattleya, the wing-like 
borders of the column seemed to be simple 
developments of the two pistils. In this latter 
genus, as well as in Catasetum, these same two 
rudimentary stamens, judging from the posi- 
tion of the vessels, served chiefly to strengthen 
the back of the column ; and the strengthening 
of the front of the column is the sole function 
of the third stamen •' a 3) of the inner whorl, in 
those cases in which I observed it. This third 
stamen rims up the middle of the column to 
the lower edge, or lip, of the stigmatic cavity. 


Digitized by Google 


300 


HOMOLOGIES OF ORCHIDS. 


Chap. VII. 


I have said that in the Ophreae and Neot- 
teae the spiral vessels, marked a 1, a 2, a 3 in 
the diagram, are entirely absent, and I looked 
carefully for them ; but in nearly all the 
members of these two tribes, two small papillae, 
or auricles as they have been often called, 
stand in exactly the position which the two 
first of these three anthers would have oc- 
cupied, had they been developed. Not only 
do they stand in this position, but the column 
in some cases, as in Cephalanthera, has on 
each side a prominent ridge, running from 
them to the bases or mid-ribs of the two upper 
petals ; that is, in the proper position of the 
filaments of these two stamens. It is, again, 
impossible to doubt that the membranes of 
the clinandrum in Malaxis are formed by 
these two anthers in a rudimentary and 
modified condition. Now, from the perfect 
clinandrum of Malaxis, through that of Spi- 
ranthes, G-oodyera, Epipactis latifolia, and 
E. palustris (see Fig. XIY., p. 103, and XIII., 
p. 94), to the minute and slightly flattened 
auricles in the genus Orchis, a perfect grada- 
tion can be traced. Hence I conclude that 
these auricles are doubly rudimentary; that 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. HOMOLOGIES OP ORCHIDS. 301 

is, that they are rudiments of the membran- 
ous sides of the clinandrum, these membranes 
themselves being rudiments of the two anthers 
so often referred to. The absence of spiral 
vessels running to the auricles by no means 
seems sufficient to overthrow these several 
arguments on their much-disputed nature ; 
that such vessels may quite disappear, we 
have proof in Cephalanthera grandiflora, in 
which the rostellum and its vessels are com- 
pletely aborted. 

Finally, then, with respect to the six 
stamens or anthers which ought to be repre- 
sented in every Orchid : the three belonging 
to the outer whorl are always present, with 
the upper one generally fertile, and the two, 
lower ones invariably petaloid and forming 
part of the labellum ; the three stamens of 
the inner whorl are less plainly developed, 
especially the lower , one, a 3, which, when it 
can be detected, serves only to strengthen the 
column, and, in some rare cases, according to 
Brown, forms a separate projection, or fila- 
ment; the upper two anthers of this inner 
whorl are fertile in Cypripedium, and in other 
cases are generally represented either by mem- 


Digitized by Google 



302 


HOMOLOGIES OF ORCHIDS. 


Chap. VH. 


branous expansions, or by minute auricles 
without spiral vessels. These auricles, how- 
ever, are sometimes quite absent, as in some 
species of Ophrys. 

On this view of the homologies of Orchid- 
flowers, we can understand the existence of 
the conspicuous central column, — the large 
size, generally tripartite form, and peculiar 
manner of attachment of the labellum, — the 
origin of the clinandrum, — the relative posi- 
tion of the single fertile anther in most 
Orchids, and of the two fertile anthers in 
Cypripedium, — the position of the rostellum, 
as well as of all the other organs, — and, 
lastly, the frequent occurrence of a bilobed 
stigma, and the occasional occurrence of two 
distinct stigmas. 

I have encountered only one case of diffi- 
culty on the foregoing views, namely in Ha- 
benaria, and in the allied Bonatea. These 
flowers have undergone such an extraordinary 
amount of distortion, owing to the wide sepa- 
ration of their anther-cells and of the two 
viscid discs of the rostellum, that any anomaly 
in them is the less surprising. The anomaly 
relates only to the vessels supplying the sides 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. YU. 


HOMOLOGIES OF OECHIDS. 


303 


of the upper sepal and of the two upper 
petals ; the vessels running into their mid-ribs 
and into all the other more important organs 
pursue the same identical course as in all the 
other Ophreae. The vessels on the sides of the 
upper sepal, instead of uniting with the mid- 
rib, and entering the posterior ovarian group, 
diverge and enter the postero-lateral groups : 
again, the vessels on the anterior side of the 
upper petals, instead of uniting with the mid- 
rib and entering the postero-lateral ovarian 
groups, diverge, or wander from their proper 
course, and enter the antero-lateral groups. 

This anomaly is so far of importance, as it 
throws some doubt on the view which I have 
taken of the labellum being always an organ 
compounded of one petal and two petaloid 
stamens ; for if any one were to assume that 
from some unknown cause the lateral vessels 
of the lower petal in an early progenitor of 
the Orchidean order had wandered from their 
proper course into the antero-lateral ovarian 
groups, and that this structure had been inhe- 
rited by all existing Orchids, even by those 
with the smallest and simplest labellums, I 
could answer only as follows ; but the answer 


Digitized by Google 



304 


HOMOLOGIES OF ORCHIDS. 


Chap. VII. 


is, I think, satisfactory. From the analogy 
of other monocotyledonous plants, we might 
expect the hidden presence of fifteen organs in 
the flowers of Orchids, arranged alternately 
in five whorls ; and in Orchid-flowers we do 
find fifteen groups of vessels exactly thus 
arranged. Hence there is a strong proba- 
bility that the vessels, A 2 and A 3, which 
enter the sides of the labellum, not in one 
or two cases, but in all the Orchids seen by 
me, and which occupy the precise position 
which they would have occupied had they 
supplied two normal stamens, do really repre- 
sent modified and petaloid stamens, and are 
not lateral vessels of the lower petal which 
have wandered from their proper course. In 
Habenaria and Bonatea,* on the other hand, 

* In Bonatea speciosa, of which I have examined only dry 
specimens sent me by Dr. Hooker, the vessels from the sides 
of the upper sepal enter the postero-lateral ovarian group, 
exactly as in Habenaria. The two upper petals are divided down 
to their bases, and the vessels supplying the anterior segment 
and those supplying the anterior portion of the posterior seg- 
ment unite and then run, as in Habenaria, into the antero-lateral 
(and therefore wrong) groups. The anterior segments of the two 
upper petals cohere with the labellum, making it, in a most 
unusual manner, five-segmented. The two wonderfully pro- 
tuberant stigmas also cohere to the upper surface of the labellum ; 
and the lower sepals apparently also cohere to its under side. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. 


HOMOLOGIES OF ORCHIDS. 


305 


the vessels from the sides of the upper sepal 
and of the two upper petals, which enter the 
wrong ovarian groups, cannot possibly repre- 
sent any now lost and once distinct organs. 

We have now finished with the general 
homologies of the flowers of Orchids. It is 
interesting to look at one of the magnificent 
exotic species, or, indeed, at one of our 
humblest forms, and observe how profoundly 
it has been modified, as compared with all ordi- 
nary flowers, — with its usually great labellum, 
formed of one petal and two petaloid stamens, 
— with its singular pollen-masses, presently 
to be referred to, — with its column formed 
of seven cohering organs, of which three 
alone perform their proper function, namely, 
one anther and two generally confluent 
stigmas, — with the third stigma incapable of 
fertilisation and modified into the wonderful 
rostellum, — with three of the anthers no 
longer capable of producing pollen, but serv- 

Consequently a section of the base of the labellum divides one 
lower petal, two petaloid anthers, portions of the two 'upper 
petals, and apparently of the two lower sepals and the two 
stigmas : altogether the section passes through the whole of or 
through portions of no less than seven or nine organs. The base 
of the labellum is here as complex an organ as the column of 
other Orchids. 


Digitized by Google 



306 


HOMOLOGIES OP OBCHIDS. 


Chap. VII. 


ing either to protect the pollen of the fertile 
anther, or to strengthen the column, or exist- 
ing as mere rudiments, or entirely suppressed. 
What an amount of modification, change of 
function, cohesion, and abortion do we here 
see! Yet hidden in that column, with its 
surrounding petals and sepals, we know that 
there are fifteen groups of vessels, arranged 
three within three, in alternating order, which 
probably have been preserved to the present 
time from having been developed in each 
flower at a very early period of growth, before 
the shape or existence of this or that part 
signified to the well-being of the plant. 

Can we, in truth, feel satisfied by saying 
that each Orchid was created, exactly as we 
now see it, on a certain “ ideal type ; ” that 
the Omnipotent Creator, having fixed on one 
plan for the whole Order, did not please to 
depart from this plan ; that He, therefore, 
made the same organ to perform diverse func- 
tions — often of trifling importance compared 
with their proper function — converted other 
organs into mere purposeless rudiments, and 
arranged all as if they had to stand separate, 
and then made them cohere ? Is it not a more 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VH. 


HOMOLOGIES OP OBCHIDS. 


307 


simple and intelligible view that all Orchids 
owe what they have in common to descent 
from some monocotyledonous plant, which, 
like so many other plants of the same division, 
possessed fifteen organs, arranged alternately 
three within three in five whorls; and that 
the now wonderfully changed structure of 
the flower is due to a long course of slow 
modification, — each modification having been 
preserved which was useful to each plant, 
during the incessant changes to which the 
organic and the inorganic world has been 
exposed ? 

On the gradation of Organs . — The rostellum, 
the pollinia, the labellum, and, in a lesser 
degree, the column, are the most remarkable 
points in the structure of Orchids. Of the 
two latter parts enough has been already said. 
No organ like the rostellum exists in any 
other flower. If the homologies of Orchids 
had not been pretty well known, those who 
believe in the separate creation of each being 
might have advanced this as a case of a 
perfectly new organ specially created, and 
which could not have been developed by suc- 
cessive slow modifications of any pre-existing 


Digitized by Google 



308 


GRADATION IN THE 


Chap. VII. 


part. But, as Robert Brown long ago re- 
marked, it is not a new organ. It is im- 
possible to look at the two groups of spiral 
vessels (Fig. XXXII.) running from the mid- 
ribs of the two lower sepals to the two, 
sometimes quite distinct, lower stigmas, and 
then to look at the third group of vessels 
running from the mid-rib of the upper sepal 
to the rostellum, which occupies exactly the 
position of the third stigma, and doubt its 
homological nature. There is every reason to 
believe that the whole of this upper stigma, 
and not merely a part, has been converted 
into the rostellum ; for there are plenty of 
cases of two stigmas, but not one instance of 
three stigmatic surfaces being present in those 
Orchids which have a rostellum. On the 
other hand, in Cypripedium and Apostasia 
(the latter ranked by Brown in the Orchidean 
order), which are destitute of a rostellum, the 
stigmatic surface is trifid. 

As we know only those plants which are 
now living, it is impossible to follow all the 
gradations by which the upper stigma has 
been converted into the rostellum ; but let us 
see what are the facilities and indications of 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. STEUCTUBE OP THE BOSTELLUM. 309 


such a change having been effected. The 
change of function has not been so great as 
it at first appears. The function of the 
rostellum is to secrete a quantity of viscid 
matter; it has lost that of fertility, but this 
loss is so common with plants that it is hardly 
worth notice. The stigmas of Orchids, as 
well as of most other plants, secrete viscid 
matter, the use of which in all cases is to 
retain the pollen when brought by any means 
to its surface. Now, if we look to one of the 
simplest rostellums, — for instance, to that of 
Cattleya or Epidendrum, — we find a thick 
layer of viscid matter, not distinctly separated 
from the viscid surface of the two confluent 
stigmas : its action is simply to smear and 
affix to the back of a retreating insect the 
pollen-masses, which are thus dragged out of 
the anther and transported to another flower, 
where they are retained by the almost equally 
viscid stigmatic surface. So that the office 
of the rostellum is still to secure the pollen- 
masses, but indirectly by means of their attach- 
ment to an insect’s body. 

The viscid matter of the rostellum and of 
the stigma appears to have nearly the same 


Digitized by Google 



310 GRADATION IN THE Chap. VII. 

character : that of the rostellum generally has 
the peculiar property of quickly drying or 
setting hard; that of the stigma, when re- 
moved from the plant, apparently dried more 
quickly than gum-water of about equal 
tenacity. This tendency to dry is the more 
remarkable, as Gartner* found that drops of 
the stigmatic secretion from Nicotiana did 
not dry in two months. The viscid matter of 
the rostellum in many Orchids when exposed 
to the air changes colour with remarkable 
quickness, and becomes brownish-purple ; and 
I have noticed a similar but slow change of 
colour in the viscid secretion of the stigmas of 
some Orchids, as of Cephalanthera grandiflora. 
When the viscid disc of an Orchis, as Bauer 
and Brown have also observed, is placed in 
water, minute particles are expelled with 
violence in a peculiar manner; and I have 
observed exactly the same fact in the layer of 
viscid matter covering the stigmatic utriculi 
in an unopened flower of Mormodes ignea. 

In order to compare the minute structure of 
the rostellum and stigma, I examined young 
flower-buds of Epidendrum cochleatum and 

* * Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Befruchtung,’ 1844, s. 236. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. STRUCTURE OP THE ROSTELLUM. 311 


floribundum, which, when mature, have a 
simple rostellum. The posterior surface was 
the same in both organs : the rostellum at 
this early age consisted of a mass of nearly 
orbicular cells, containing spheres of brown 
matter, which resolve themselves into the 
viscid matter: the stigma was covered with 
a thinner layer of similar cells, and beneath 
them were the coherent spindle-formed utri- 
culi. The utrieuli are believed to be con- 
nected with the penetration of the pollen-tubes ; 
and their absence in the rostellum probably 
accounts for its infertility. As I do not find 
the exterior layer of nearly orbicular cells 
on the stigma in the bud-state (which appa- 
rently secrete the viscid matter), mentioned 
by more experienced observers, I cannot help 
feeling some doubt on the subject; though I 
have no other reason to doubt my accuracy. 
If the structure of the rostellum, in one of the 
simplest Orchids, and of the stigma, be as I 
have described them, their only difference is, 
that in the rostellum the layer of cells, which 
secretes the viscid matter, is thicker, and the 
utrieuli have disappeared. 

Hence, during a course of slow modifica- 


Digitized by Google 



312 


GBADATION IN THE 


Chap. VH. 


tion, it is quite conceivable that the upper 
stigma, whilst still in some degree fertile or 
capable of penetration by the pollen-tubes, 
might secrete a superfluity of viscid matter ; 
and that insects smeared with this might re- 
move and transport the pollen-masses to the 
stigmas of other flowers. In this case an 
incipient rostellum would have been formed. 

The following details on the rostellum and 
* pollinia will have no interest to any one, unless 
he cares much about the structure of Orchids, 
or wishes to see how far very different states 
of the same organ can be graduated together 
within the limits of the same order. In the 
several Tribes, the rostellum presents a mar- 
vellous amount of diversity of structure ; but 
most of the differences can be connected 
without very wide breaks. One of the most 
striking differences is, that either the whole 
anterior surface to some depth or only the 
central portion becomes viscid, in the latter 
case the surface retaining, as in Orchis, a 
membranous condition. But these two states 
so graduate into each other, that it is scarcely 
possible to draw any line of separation : thus, * 
in Epipactis, the exterior surface undergoes a 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. VII. STBUCTUBE OF THE BOSTELLUM. 313 - 


vast change from its early cellular condition, 
and becomes converted into a highly elastic 
and tender membrane, which is in itself 
slightly viscid, and allows the underlying 
viscid matter readily to exude ; yet it acts 
as a membrane, with its under surface lined 
with much more viscid matter : in Habenaria 
chlorantha the exterior surface is highly 
viscid, but still closely resembles, under the 
microscope, the exterior membrane of Epi- 
pactis. Lastly, in some species of Oncidium, 
&c., the viscid exterior surface differs, as far 
as appearance under the microscope goes, 
from the underlying viscid layer only in 
colour ; but it must have some essential dif- 
ference ; for I find that, until this very thin 
exterior layer is disturbed, the underlying 
matter remains viscid ; whilst, after it has 
been disturbed, it rapidly sets hard. The 
gradation in the state of the surface of the 
rostellum is not surprising, for in all cases in 
the bud the surface is cellular ; so that an 
early condition has only to be more or less 
perfectly retained. 

The nature of the viscid matter differs 
remarkably in different Orchids : in Listera 

p 


Digitized by Google 



314 GRADATION IN THE Chap. YU. 

it sets hard almost instantaneously, more 
quickly than plaster of Paris; in Malaxis 
and Angraecum it remains fluid and viscid for 
several days ; but these two states pass into 
each other by many gradations : in an Onci- 
dium I have observed the viscid matter to 
dry in a minute and a half; in some species 
of Orchis in two or three minutes ; in Epi- 
pactis in ten minutes ; in Gymnadenia in two 
hours ; and in Habenaria in over twenty-four 
hours. After the viscid matter of Listera has 
set hard, neither water nor weak spirits of 
wine has any effect on it; whereas that of 
Habenaria bifolia, after being kept in spirits, 
and after having been dried for several 
months, when moistened was as sticky as 
ever; the viscid matter in some species of 
Orchis, when remoistened, presented an inter- 
mediate condition. 

One of the most important differences in 
the state of the rostellum is, whether or not 
the pollinia are congenitally attached to it. I 
do not allude to those cases in which the upper 
surface of the rostellum becomes viscid, as in 
Malaxis and some Epidendrums, and adheres 
without mechanical aid to the pollen-masses ; 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. STRUCTURE OF THE ROSTELLUM. 315 


for these eases present no difficulty, and can 
be graduated together. But I refer to the 
so-called congenital attachment of the pollinia 
by their caudicles. It is not, however, strictly 
correct to speak of congenital attachment, for 
the pollinia at an early period are invariably 
free, and become attached either earlier or 
later in different Orchids. No actual grada- 
tion is at present known in the process of 
attachment; but it can be shown to depend 
on very simple conditions and modifications. 
In the Epidendrege the pollinia consist of a 
ball of waxy , pollen, with a long caudicle 
(formed of elastic threads with adherent pollen- 
grains), which never becomes spontaneously 
attached to the rostellum. Cymbidium gigan- 
teum, on the other hand, has a congenitally 
attached caudicle, but its structure is identi- 
cally the same, with this sole difference, that 
the elastic threads near its base adhere to, 
instead of simply lying on, the upper lip of 
the rostellum. 

In an allied form, the Oncidium unguicu- 
latum, I examined the development of the 
caudicles. At an early period the pollen- 
masses are enclosed in membranous cases ; 

p 2 


Digitized by Google 



316 


GRADATION IN THE 


Chap. VII. 


which soon rupture at one point. At this 
early period, within the cleft of each pollen- 
mass, a layer of cellular matter may be 
detected, with the cells of rather large size, 
including remarkably opaque matter. The 
contained matter may be traced undergoing 
all the stages of development into the translu- 
cent substance forming the threads of the 
caudicles. As this change progresses, the 
cells themselves disappear. The threads at 
one end finally adhere to the waxy pollen, 
and at the other end, whilst still in a semi- 
developed state, they protrude through the 
small opening of the membranous case, and 
adhere to the rostellum, against which the 
anther is pressed. So that the adhesion of 
the caudicle to the back of the rostellum seems 
to depend solely on the early rupturing of 
the anther-case, and on a slight protrusion 
of the caudicles, before they have become 
fully developed and hardened. 

In all Orchids a portion of the rostellum is, 
in fact, removed by insects when the pollinia 
are removed ; for the viscid matter, though 
conveniently spoken of as a secretion, is a 
part of the rostellum in a modified condition. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. STBUCTURE OF THE ROSTELLUM. 317 


But in those Orchids, which have their cau- 
dicles at an early period attached to the ros- 
tellum, a membranous or solid portion of its 
exterior surface in an unmodified condition 
is likewise removed.. In the Yandese this 
portion is sometimes of considerable size 
(forming the disc and pedicel of the polli- 
nium), and gives to their pollinia their most 
remarkable character ; hut the differences in 
the shape and size of the removed portions 
of the rostellum can be finely graduated to- 
gether, even within the Yandeae ; and still 
more closely by commencing with the minute 
oval atom of membrane to which the caudicle 
of Orchis adheres, passing thence to that of 
Habenaria bifolia, to that of H. chlorantha 
with its drum-like pedicel, and thence through 
many forms to the great disc and pedicel of 
Catasetum. 

In all the cases in which a portion of the 
exterior surface of the rostellum is removed 
attached to the caudicles, definite and often 
complicated lines of separation are formed, or 
are at least prepared by being weak, in order 
to allow of the easy separation of the remove- 
able portions. But the formation of the lines 


Digitized by Google 



318 


GRADATION IN THE 


Chap. VXL 


of weakness does not differ much from certain 
definite portions of the exterior surface of the 
rostellum assuming a condition intermediate 
between that of unaltered membrane and of 
viscid matter, which has been already alluded 
to. The actual separation of the lines depends 
in many, perhaps in all, cases on the excite- 
ment of a touch ; and how this is effected is 
at present inexplicable. But sensitiveness to 
touch in the stigma (and the rostellum, as we 
know, is a modified stigma), and indeed in all 
the organs of vegetation, is not a very rare 
attribute of many plants. 

In Listera and Neottea, when the rostellum 
is touched, even by a human hair, two points 
rupture, and the included viscid matter is in- 
stantaneously expelled. Here we have a case 
towards which as yet no gradation is known. 
But Dr. Hooker has shown that the structure 
of the rostellum is at first cellular (as in other 
Orchids), and that the viscid matter originally 
developed within these cells is contained, 
apparently in a state of tension, in the loculi, 
ready to be expelled as soon as the exterior 
surface ruptures. 

The last and conspicuous difference in the 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. STRUCTURE OF THE ROSTELLUM. 319 


state of the rostellum which I will mention 
is the existence, in many Ophrese, of two 
widely-separated viscid discs, sometimes in- 
cluded in two separate pouches. Here it at 
first appears as if there were two rostella ; 
but there is never more than one medial group 
of spiral vessels. In the Yandeae we can see 
how a single viscid disc and single pedicel 
might become divided into two ; for in some 
Stanhopeas the heart-shaped disc shows a 
trace of a tendency to division; and in 
Angrsecum we have two distinct discs and 
two pedicels, either standing close together or 
removed a little way apart. 

It might be thought that a similar gra- 
dation from a single rostellum into what 
appears like two distinct rostella was still 
more plainly shown in the Ophrese ; for we 
have the following series, — in Orchis pyra- 
midalis a single disc enclosed in a single 
pouch ; in . Aceras two discs touching and 
affecting each other’s shapes, but not actually 
joined; in Orchis latifolia and maculata two 
quite distinct discs with the pouch still showing 
plain traces of division ; and, lastly, in Ophrys 
we have two perfectly distinct pouches, in- 


Digitized by Google 



320 


GRADATION IN THE 


Chap. VII. 


eluding of course two perfectly distinct discs. 
But this series does not indicate the former 
steps by which a single rostellum has become 
divided into two distinct organs ; but shows, 
on the contrary, how the rostellum, after hav- 
ing been anciently divided into two organs, 
has now in several cases been reunited into a 
single organ. 

This conclusion is founded on the nature of 
the little medial crest (sometimes called the 
rostellate process) between the bases of the 
anther-cells (see Fig. I., B and D, p. 18 ). 
In both divisions of the Ophrese (those with 
naked discs and those with discs enclosed in 
a pouch), whenever the two discs come into 
close juxtaposition, this medial crest or process 
appears.* On the other hand, when the two 
discs stand widely separate, the summit of the 
rostellum between them is smooth, or nearly 
smooth. In the Frog Orchis (Peristylus viri- 
dis) the overarching summit is bent like the 

* Professor Babington (‘ Manual of British Botany,’ 3rd edit.) 
uses the existence of this “ rostellate process ” as a character to 
separate Orchis, Gymnadenia, and Aceras from the other genera 
of Ophrese. The group of spiral vessels, properly belonging to 
the rostellum, runs up, and even into, the base of this crest or 
process. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. STRUCTUBE OF THE ROSTELLUM. 321 


roof of a house ; and here we see the first 
stage of the formation of the folded crest. 
In Herminium, however, which has two 
separate and large discs, a crest, or solid 
ridge, is rather more plainly developed than 
might have been expected. In Gymnadenia 
conopsea, Orchis maculata, and others, the 
crest consists of a hood of thin membrane ; in 
0. mascula the two sides of the hood have 
partly adhered; and in 0. pyramidalis and 
in Aceras it has been converted into a solid 
ridge. These facts are intelligible only on 
the view, that, whilst the two discs were 
gradually, during a long line of generations, 
brought together, the intermediate portion or 
summit of the rostellum became more and 
more arched, until a folded crest, and finally 
a solid ridge, was formed. 

Whether we compare together the state of 
the rostellum in the various Orchid-tribes, or 
compare the rostellum with the pistil and 
stigma of ordinary flowers, the differences 
are wonderfully great. A simple pistil of a 
common plant consists of a cylinder sur- 
mounted hy a small viscid surface. Now, see 
what a contrast the rostellum of Catasetum, 

p 3 


Digitized by Google 



322 


GRADATION IN THE 


Chap. VII. 


when dissected from the other elements of 
the column, presents ; and as I traced all the 
vessels in this Orchid, the drawing may be 
trusted as approximately accurate. The whole 
organ has lost its normal function of fertility. 
Its shape is most singular, with its upper end 


Fig. XXXIII. 



Rostellum of Catasetum. 


an, antennae of rostel- 
lum. 

d, viscid disc. 


ped , pedicel of rostellum, to 
which the pollen- 
masses are attached. 


thickened, bent over and produced into two 
long tapering and sensitive antennae, hollow 
within like adder’s fangs. Behind and be- 
tween the bases of these antennae we see the 
large viscid disc, attached to the pedicel, which 


Digitized by 


Google 



Chap. VII. STRUCTURE OF THE ROSTELLUM. 323 


differs in structure from the underlying 
portion of the rostellum, and is separated 
from it by a layer of hyaline tissue, that 
spontaneously dissolves. The ‘disc, attached 
to the surrounding parts by membrane which 
ruptures when excited by a touch, consists of 
strong upper tissue, with an underlying elastic 
cushion, coated with viscid matter ; and this 
again in most Orchids is overlaid by a film 
of a different nature. What an amount of 
specialisation of parts do we here behold ! 
Yet we have seen in the comparatively few 
Orchids described in this volume, so many 
and such plainly-marked gradations in the 
structure of this organ, and such plain facili- 
ties for the original conversion of the upper 
pistil into the rostellum, that it becomes far 
from incredible, if we had every Orchid which 
has ever existed throughout the ‘world, that 
every gap in the existing chain, and every 
gap in many lost chains, would be amply 
filled up by a series of easy transitions. 

We now come to the last great peculiarity 
in Orchids, namely, their pollen-masses. The 
anther opens early, and often deposits the 


Digitized by Google 



324 


GRADATION IN THE 


Chap. YH. 


naked masses of pollen on the back of the 
rostellum. This action is prefigured in Canna, 
a member of the family nearest allied to 
Orchids, in which the pollen is deposited on 
the pistil, close beneath the stigma. In the 
state of the pollen there is great diversity : 
in the anomalous Cypripedium single grains 
are embedded in a glutinous fluid ; in all other 
Orchids (except the degraded Cephalanthera) 
each grain consists of generally four united 
granules.* These compound grains are tied 

* In several cases I have observed four tubes emitted from 
the four granules. In some semi -monstrous flowers of Malaxis 
paludosa, and of Aceras anthropophora, and in perfect flowers of 
Neottia nidus-avis, I have observed pollen-tubes emitted from 
the pollen-grains, whilst still within the anther and not in 
contact with the stigma. I have thought this worth mentioning, 
as R. Brown (in ‘ Linn. Transact.* vol. xvi. p. 729) states, ap- 
parently with some surprise, that the pollen-tubes were emitted 
from the pollen, whilst still within the anther, in a decaying 
flower of Asclepias. These cases show that the protruding tubes 
are, at least at first, formed at the expense of the contents of the 
pollen-grains. 

Having alluded to the monstrous flowers of the Aceras, I will 
add that I examined several, always the lowest on the spike ; in 
these the labellum was hardly developed, and was pressed close 
against the stigma. The rostellum was not developed, so that 
the pollinia had not viscid discs ; but the most curious feature 
was, that the two anther-cells had become, apparently in con- 
sequence of the position of the rudimentary labellum, widely 
separated, and were joined by a connective membrane, almost as 
broad as that of Habenaria chlorantha ! 


Digitized by 


Google 



Chap. VH. STRUCTURE OF THE POLLEN. 325 

together by elastic threads, or are cemented 
together into so-called waxy masses by some 
unknown substance. The waxy masses thus 
formed are numerous in the Ophreae ; and 
graduate in the Epidendreae and Yandeae from 
eight, to four, to two, and, by the cohesion of 
the two, into a single mass. In the Epi- 
dendrese we have both kinds of pollen within 
the same anther, namely, waxy masses, and 
caudicles consisting of elastic threads, with 
numerous compound grains adhering to them. 

I can throw no light on the nature of the 
cohesion of the pollen in these waxy masses ; 
when they are placed in water for three or 
four days, the compound grains readily fall 
apart ; but the granules forming each grain 
still firmly cohere ; so that the nature of the 
cohesion in the two cases is different. The 
elastic threads by which the packets of pollen 
are tied together in the Ophreae, and which 
run far up inside the waxy masses of the 
Yandeae, are also of a different nature ; for 
they are acted on by chloroform, and by long 
immersion in spirits of wine ; but these fluids 
have no particular action on the cohesion 
of the waxy masses. In several Epidendreae 


Digitized by Google 



326 


GRADATION IN THE 


Chap. VII. 


and Y andese the exterior pollen-grains of 
these masses differ from the interior grains, 
in being larger, and in having yellower and 
much thicker walls. So that in the contents 
of a single anther-cell we see a surprising 
degree of differentiation of structure in the 
pollen, namely, granules cohering by fours, 
apparently due to their manner of early 
development, and the compound grains partly 
tied together by threads and partly cemented 
together, with the exterior grains different 
from the interior grains. 

In the Yandeae, the caudicle, composed of 
fine coherent threads, is developed from the 
semi-fluid contents of a layer of cellular mem- 
brane. As I find that chloroform has a pecu- 
liar and energetic action on the caudicles 
of all Orchids, and likewise on the glutinous 
matter enveloping the pollen-grains in Cy- 
pripedium, and which can easily be drawn 
out into threads, one may suspect that in this 
simpler Orchid we see the primordial condition 
of the elastic threads by which the pollen- 
grains in so many other more highly-developed 
Orchids are tied together.* 

* Auguste de Saint Hilaire states (‘ Le9ons de Botanique,’ &c., 


Digitized by 


Google 



Chap. VH. STRUCTURE OF THE POLLEN. 


327 


The caudicle, when largely developed and 
destitute of pollen-grains, is the most striking 
peculiarity of the pollinia. In some Neottese, 
especially in G-oodyera, we see it in a nascent 
condition, projecting just beyond the pollen- 
mass, with the threads only partially confluent. 
By tracing in the Vandeae the gradation from 
the ordinary naked condition of the caudicle, 
through Lycaste in which it is almost naked, 
through Calanthe, to Cymbidium giganteum, 
in which it is covered with pollen-grains, it 
seems probable that its ordinary condition 
has been arrived at by the modification of a 

1841, p. 447) that the elastic threads exist in the early bud, 
after the pollen-grains have been partly formed, as a thick creamy 
fluid. He adds that his observations on Ophrys apifera have 
shown him that this fluid is secreted by the rostellum, and is 
slowly forced drop by drop into the anther. Had not so eminent 
an authority made this statement I should not have noticed 
it. It is certainly erroneous. In buds of Epipactis latifolia I 
opened the anther, whilst perfectly closed and free from the 
rostellum, and found the pollen-grains united by elastic threads. 
Cephalanthera grandiflora has no rostellum to secrete the thick 
fluid, yet the pollen-grains are thus united. In a monstrous 
specimen of Orchis pyramidalis the auricles, or rudimentary 
anthers on each side of the proper anther, had become partly 
developed, and they stood quite on one side of the rostellum and 
stigma ; yet I found in one of these auricles a distinct caudicle 
(which necessarily had no disc at its extremity), and this 
caudicle could not possibly have been secreted from the stigma. 
I could give additional evidence, but it would be superfluous. 


Digitized by Google 



328 


GRADATION IN THE 


Chap. YU. 


pollinium like that of one of the Epidendreae ; 
namely, by the abortion of the pollen-grains 
which primordially adhered to separate elastic 
threads, and by the cohesion of these threads. 

In the Ophreae we have better evidence 
than that offered by mere gradation, that the 
long, rigid and naked caudicle has been thus 
partly formed. I had often observed a cloudy 
appearance in the middle of the translucent 
caudicle ; and on carefully opening that of 
Orchis pyramidalis, I found in several speci- 
mens in the centre, fully half-way down 
between the packets of pollen and the viscid 
disc, several pollen - grains (consisting, as 
usual, of four united granules), lying quite 
loose. These grains, from their embedded 
position, could never by any possibility have 
been left on the stigma of a flower, and were 
absolutely useless. Those who can persuade 
themselves that purposeless organs have been 
specially created, will think little of this fact. 
Those, on the contrary, who believe in the 
slow modification of organic beings, will feel 
no surprise that the process of change should 
not always have been perfectly efficient, — 
that, during and after the many inherited 


Digitized by 


Google 



Chap. VII. STRUCTURE OF THE POLLEN. 


329 


stages of the abortion of the lower pollen- 
grains and of the coherence of the elastic 
threads, there should still exist a tendency 
to the production of a few pollen-grains 
where they were formerly developed, and 
that these should consequently be left entan- 
gled within the now coherent threads of the 
caudicle. They will look at the little clouds 
formed by the loose pollen-grains within the 
caudicles of Orchis pyramidalis, as good 
evidence that the pollen-mass of its parent- 
form was originally like that of Epipactis or 
Goodyera, and that the grains slowly dis- 
appeared from the lower parts of the mass, 
leaving the elastic threads naked and ready to 
cohere into a true caudicle. 

As the caudicle, whether longer or shorter 
in the several species, plays an important 
part in the fertilisation of the flower, it appa- 
rently might have been formed from a nascent 
condition, as in Epipactis, by the continued pre- 
servation of varying increments in its length, 
each beneficial in relation to other changes in 
the structure of the flower. But we may con- 
clude from the facts given, that this has not been 
the sole means, — that the caudicle owes much 


Digitized by Google 



330 


GRADATION IN THE 


Chap. VII. 


of its length to the abortion of the lower pollen- 
grains. That it has subsequently in some cases 
been largely increased in length by natural 
selection, is highly probable ; for in Bonatea 
speciosa the caudicle is actually more than 
thrice as long as the elongated mass of pollen- 
grains ; and it is improbable that so lengthy a 
mass of slightly cohering grains should have 
existed, as an insect could not have safely 
transported and applied to the stigma a pollen- 
mass of this shape and size. 

We have hitherto considered the gradations 
in the state of the same organ. To any one 
with much more knowledge than I possess, 
it would be an interesting subject to trace, 
in this great and closely-connected order, the 
gradations, as far as possible, between the 
several species and groups of species. To 
make a perfect gradation, all the extinct forms 
which have ever existed, along many lines of 
descent converging to the common progenitor 
of the order, would have to be called into life. 
It is due to their absence, and to the conse- 
quent wide gaps in the series, that we are 
enabled to divide the existing species into 


Digitized by 


Google 


Chap. YD. 


GROUPS OF ORCHIDS. 


331 


definable groups, such as genera, families, and 
tribes. If there had been no extinction, there 
would still have been great fines, or branches, 
of special development, — the Vandeae, for 
instance, would still, as a great body, have 
been distinguishable from the great body of 
the Ophreae ; but ancient and intermediate 
forms, very different probably from their 
present descendants, would have rendered it 
utterly impossible to separate by distinct 
characters the one great body from the other. 

I will venture on only a few remarks. Cy- 
pripedium, in having three stigmas developed, 
and therefore in not having a rostellum, in 
having two fertile anthers with a large rudi- 
ment of a third, and in the state of its pollen, 
seems a remnant of the order whilst in a 
simpler condition. . Apostasia is a related 
genus, placed by Brown amongst Orchids, but 
by Lindley in a small distinct family. These 
broken groups do not indicate to us the 
structure of the common parent-form of all 
Orchids, but they probably serve to show the 
state of the order in ancient times, when none 
of the forms had become so widely differ- 
entiated from each other and from other 


Digitized by Google 



332 


. GRADATION IN THE 


Chap. VII. 


plants, as are the existing Orchids, especially 
the Yandeae and Ophreae; and when, conse- 
quently, the order made a nearer approach in 
all its characters, than at present, to such 
allied groups as the Marantaceae. 

With respect to other Orchids, we can see 
that an ancient form, like one of the Pleuro- 
thallidae, some of which have waxy pollen- 
masses with a minute caudicle, might give 
rise, by the entire abortion of the caudicle, 
to the Dendrobidae, and by an increase of 
the caudicle to the Epidendreae. Cymbidium 
shows us how simply a form like one of our 
present Epidendreae could be modified into 
one of the Yandeae. The Neotteae stand in 
nearly a similar relation to the Ophreae, which 
the Epidendreae do to the Yandeae. In certain 
genera of the Neotteae we have the pollen- 
grains cemented into packets, tied together 
by elastic threads, which project and form a 
nascent caudicle. But this caudicle does not 
protrude from the lower end of the polli- 
nium as in the Ophreae, nor does it always 
protrude from the extreme upper end in the 
Neotteae ; so that we can see that a transition 
in this respect would be far from impossible. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. 


GROUPS OF ORCHIDS. 


333 


In Spiranthes, the back of the rostellum, lined 
with viscid matter, is alone removed ; the front 
part is membranous, and ruptures like the 
pouch-formed rostellum of the Ophreae. An 
ancient form, combining most of the cha- 
racters, but in a less developed state, of 
G-oodyera, Epipactis, and Spiranthes, would, 
by further slight modifications, give rise to 
the whole tribe of the Ophreae. 

Hardly any question in Natural History is 
more vague and difficult to decide than what 
forms within any large group ought to be 
considered as the highest ; * for all are excel- 
lently adapted to their conditions of life. If 
we look to traces of successive modification, 
with differentiation of parts and consequent 
complexity of structure, as the standard of 
comparison, the Ophreae and Yandeae will 
stand the highest. Are we to lay much stress 
on the size and beauty of the flower, and on 
the size of the whole plant ? if so, the Yandeae 


* The fullest and the most able discussion on this difficult 
subject is by Professor H. G. Bronn in his ‘ Entwickelungs- 
Gesetze der Organischen Welt,’ 1858. I have read the French 
translation published in 1861, Supplement, * Comptes Rendus,’ 
tom. ii. p. 520 et seq. This great work was crowned by the 
French Academy of Sciences. 


Digitized by Google 



334 


GRADATION OF ORCHIDS. 


Chap. VII. 


are pre-eminent. They have, also, rather 
more complex pollinia, with the pollen-masses 
often reduced to two. The rostellum, on the 
other hand, in the Ophrese, has apparently 
been more modified from its primordial stig- 
matic nature than in the Vandese. In all the 
Ophreas the anthers of the inner whorl are 
almost entirely suppressed, — the auricles — 
mere rudiments of rudiments — being retained : 
these anthers have, therefore, undergone a 
greater amount of modification ; but can such 
suppression be considered as a sign of high- 
ness? I should doubt whether any member 
of the Orchidean order has been more pro- 
foundly modified in its whole structure than 
Bonatea speciosa, one of the Ophreae. So 
again, within this tribe, nothing can be more 
perfect than the contrivances in Orchis pyra- 
midalis for its fertilisation. Yet an ill-defined 
feeling tells me to rank the magnificent 
Yandeae as the highest. When we look 
within this tribe at the elaborate mechanism 
of Catasetum for the ejection and trans- 
portal of the pollinia, with the sensitive 
rostellum so wonderfully modified, with the 
sexes borne on distinct plants, we may 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. THE MOVEMENTS OP THE POLLINIA. 335 

perhaps give to this genus the palm of 
victory. 

A few miscellaneous points, which could 
not elsewhere have been conveniently intro- 
duced, deserve to be noticed. First, for the 
mechanism by which the pollinia in so many 
Orchids undergo a movement of depression, 
when removed from their places of attach- 
ment and exposed for a few seconds to the 
air. This is always due to the contraction 
of a portion, sometimes, as in Orchis, to an 
exceedingly minute portion, of the exterior 
surface of the rostellum, which has retained a 
membranous condition. This membrane, as 
we have seen, is likewise sensitive to a touch. 
In one Maxillaria the middle of the pedicel, 
and in Habenaria the whole drum-like pedicel, 
contracts. The point of contraction in all 
other cases seen by me is either close to 
the surface of attachment of the caudicle to 
the disc, or at the point where the pedicel is 
united to the disc; but both the disc and 
pedicel are parts of the exterior surface of the 
rostellum. In these remarks I do not refer 
to the movements simply due to the elasticity 
of the pollinia in the Yandese. 


Digitized by Google 



336 THE MOVEMENTS OP THE POLLINIA. Chap. VII. 


Fig. XXXIV. 


The long strap-formed disc of Gymnadenia 
conopsea is well adapted to show the mechan- 
ism of the movement of depression. The 
whole pollinium, both in its upright and 
depressed (but not closely depressed) position, 
has been shown (p. 80 ) by Fig. X. The disc, 
highly magnified, in its uncontracted condi- 
tion, is seen from above in the upper figure 
here given, with the caudicle removed ; and in 
the lower figure we have a longitudinal sec- 
tion of the uncontracted 
disc, together with the 
base of the attached and 
upright caudicle. At the 
broad end of the disc there 
is a deep crescent-shaped 
depression, bordered by 
a slight ridge formed of 
elongated cells. The end of the caudicle is 
attached to the steep sides of this depression 
and ridge. Now, when the disc is exposed 
to the air for about thirty seconds, the ridge 
contracts and sinks flat down ; in sinking, 
it drags with it the caudicle. When placed 
again in water the ridge rises, and when re- 
exposed to the air it sinks, but each time with 



Disc of Gymnadenia conopsea. 


Digitized by Google 


Chap. VII. THE MOVEMENTS OP THE POLLINIA. 337 

somewhat enfeebled power. With each sink- 
ing and rising of the caudicle, the whole 
pollinium is depressed and elevated. 

That the power of movement lies exclu- 
sively in the surface of the rostellum is well 
shown by the saddle-shaped disc of Orchis 
pyramidalis ; for I removed under water the 
attached caudicles, as well as the layer of 
viscid matter from its under surface, and im- 
mediately that it was exposed to the air the 
proper contraction ensued. The disc is here 
formed of several layers of minute cells (and I 
believe this to be the case with the disc of the 
Gymnadenia), which are best seen in speci- 
mens kept in spirits of wine, for their contents 
are thus rendered more opaque. The cells in 
the flaps of the saddle are a little elongated. 
As long as the saddle is kept damp its upper 
surface is nearly flat, but when exposed to 
the air (see Fig. III. E, p. 22) the surface 
contracts immediately beneath the point of 
attachment of the truncated end of each 
caudicle, and becomes oblique ; and two 
valleys are likewise formed in front of the 
two caudicles. By this contraction the 
caudicles are thrown down, almost in the 

Q 


Digitized by Google 



338 THE MOVEMENTS OF THE POLLINIA. Chap. VII. 

same way as if trenches were dug in front 
of two upright poles, and the ground at the 
same time undermined beneath them. As far 
as I could perceive, an analogous contraction 
causes the depression of the pollinia in Orchis 
mascula. 

Some pollinia which had been gummed on 
card for several months, when placed in water, 
underwent the movement of depression ; and 
a fresh pollinium, when alternately damped and 
exposed to the air, can be made to rise and 
sink several times. Before I had ascertained 
these facts, which seem to show that the 
movement is hygrometric, I thought that it was 
a vital action, and tried vapour of chloroform 
and prussic acid, and immersion in laudanum ; 
but these reagents did not check the move- 
ment. Nevertheless, there are considerable 
difficulties in understanding how the move- 
ment can be simply hygrometric. The flaps 
of the saddle in Orchis pyramidalis (see 
• Fig. III. D, p. 22) curl completely inwards 
in nine seconds, which is surprisingly quick 
for the action of mere evaporation ; and it is 
the under surface which curls inwards and 
ought to dry so quickly; but this cannot 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. THE MOVEMENTS OF THE POLLINIA. 339 

happen, as it is covered with a thick layer of 
viscid • matter : the edges, however, of the 
saddle might become slightly dry in the nine 
seconds. When the saddle-formed disc is 
placed in spirits of wine it contracts energetic- 
ally, and when placed in water opens again. 
This does not look as if the action was 
simply hydrometric. Whether the contraction 
is hygrometric, or is due to endosmose, or to 
some other unknown cause, the movements 
of depression in the pollinia thus produced are 
admirably regulated in each species, so that 
the pollen-masses, when transported by insects 
from flower to flower, should assume a posi- 
tion fitted to strike the stigmatic surface. 

These movements would be quite useless, 
unless the pollinia first became attached to the 
insect in a uniform position relatively to the 
flower, so as to become after the movement 
of depression invariably directed towards the 
stigma ; and this necessitates that insects 
should he led to visit all the flowers of the * 
same species in a uniform manner. Hence I 
must say a few words on the sepals and 
petals. Their primary function, no doubt, 
is to protect the organs of fructification in 

Q 2 


Digitized by Google 



340 


USES OF THE 


Chap. VII. 


the bud. Even after the flower has fully 
expanded, the upper sepal and two upper 
petals often continue the same office. We 
cannot doubt that this protection is of service, 
when we see in Stelis the sepals so neatly 
closing and reprotecting the flower after its 
expansion ; in Masdevallia the sepals soldered 
together, with two little windows alone left 
open ; and when we see, in the open and 
exposed flowers of the Bolbophyllum, that the 
mouth of the stigmatic chamber after a time 
closes. Analogous facts in Malaxis, Cepha- 
lanthera, &c., could be given. But the hood 
formed by the upper sepal and two upper 
petals, besides affording protection, evidently 
forms a guide, compelling insects to visit the 
flower in front. I do not believe that C. K. 
Sprengel’s view,* that the bright and con- 
spicuous colour of the flower serves to attract 
insects from a distance, is a fanciful notion; 

* I am aware that this author’s curious work, with its curious 
title of 4 Das Entdeckte Geheimniss der Natur,’ has often been 
spoken lightly of. No doubt he was an enthusiast, and probably 
carried some of his ideas to an extreme length. I feel sure, from 
my own observations, that his work contains a large body of 
truth. Many years ago Robert Brown, to whose judgment all 
botanists defer, spoke highly of it to me, and remarked that only 
those who knew little of the subject would laugh at this work. 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. 


PETALS AND SEPALS. 


341 


though some Orchids have singularly incon- 
spicuous and greenish flowers, — perhaps in 
order to escape some danger. Many of these 
inconspicuous flowers are, however, strongly 
scented, which would equally well serve to 
attract insects. 

But the labellum is by far the most import- 
ant of the external envelopes of the flower. 
It secretes, and often collects in a receptacle, 
nectar ; or is fleshy, and -is furnished with 
excrescences, which probably are attractive 
to insects. Unless the flowers were by some 
means rendered attractive, they would be 
cursed with perpetual sterility. The label- 
lum always stands in front of the rostellum, 
and its outer portion often serves, as I have 
seen, as a landing-place for the necessary 
visitors : in Epipactis palustris this part is 
flexible and elastic, and apparently compels 
insects in retreating to brush against the 
rostellum : in Cypripedium this end is folded 
over like the end of a slipper, and compels 
insects to insert their probosces over and near 
the anthers. In the older flowers ofSpiranthes 
the labellum moves from the column, and 
leaves a wider passage for the safe introduc- 


Digitized by Google 



342 


USES OF THE 


Chap. VII. 


tion of the pollinia, when attached to the pro- 
boscis of a bee. In certain exotic Orchids 
the labellum suddenly moves and catches 
insects as if in a box. In Mormodes ignea 
it is perched on the summit of the column, 
and here insects alight and touch the sensitive 
hinge of the anther. The labellum is often 
deeply channelled, or has guiding ridges, or is 
pressed closely against the column, and in a 
multitude of cases it approaches closely enough 
to render the flower tubular. By these several 
means insects are forced to brush against the 
rostellum. We must not, however, suppose 
that every detail of structure in the labellum 
is of use : in some instances, as in Sarcanthus, 
part of its extraordinary shape seems due to 
its having been developed in the bud in close 
apposition to the curiously shaped rostellum. 

In Listera ovata the labellum stands far 
from the column, but its base is narrow, so 
that insects are led to stand exactly beneath 
the middle of the rostellum : in other cases, as 
in Stanhopfea, Phalsenopsis, &c., the labellum 
is furnished with upturned basal lobes, which 
manifestly act as lateral guides. In some 
cases, as in Malaxis, the two upper petals are 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VIL PETALS AND SEPALS. 343 

curled backwards so as to be out of the way ; 
in other cases, as in Acropera, Masdevallia, 
and some Bolbophyllums, these upper petals 
plainly serve as lateral guides, compelling 
insects to visit the flower, or to insert their 
probosces directly in front of the rostellum. 
In other cases, wings from the margins of 
the clinandrum, or from the sides of the 
column, serve as lateral guides both in the 
withdrawal of the pollinia, and in their sub- 
sequent insertion into the stigmatic cavity. 
So that there can be no doubt that the petals 
and sepals and rudimentary anthers do good 
service in several ways, besides in affording 
protection to the bud. 

The final end of the whole flower, with all 
its parts, is the production of seed ; and these 
are produced by Orchids in vast profusion. 
Not that this is anything to boast of in the 
order ; for the production of an almost infi- 
nite number of eggs, or seeds, is undoubtedly 
a sign of lowness of organisation. That a 
plant, not an annual, should escape destruction 
at some period of its life simply by the pro- 
duction of a vast number of seeds or seedlings, 
shows a poverty of contrivance, or a want of 


Digitized by Google 



344 NUMBER OF SEED PRODUCED. Chap. VII. 

some fitting protection against some danger. 
I was curious to estimate the number of seeds 
produced by Orchids ; so I took a ripe capsule 
of Cephalanthera grandiflora, and arranged 
the seeds as equably as I could in a narrow 
hillock, on a long ruled line ; and then counted 
the seeds in a length, accurately measured, 
of one-tenth of an inch. They were 83 in 
number, and this would give for the whole 
capsule 6020 seeds ; and for the four capsules 
borne by the plant 24,000 seeds. Estimating 
in the same manner the smaller seeds in 
Orchis maculata, I found the number nearly 
the same, viz. 6200 ; and, as I have often seen 
above 30 capsules on the same plant, the 
total amount will be 186,300, — a prodigious 
number for one small plant to bear. As this 
Orchid is perennial, and cannot in most places 
be increasing in number, one seed alone of this 
large number, once in every few years, pro- 
duces a mature plant. I examined many seeds 
of the Cephalanthera, and very few seemed 
bad. 

To give an idea what the above figures 
really mean, I will briefly show the possible 
rate of increase of O. maculata : an acre of 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. NUMBER OF SEED PRODUCED. 


345 


land would hold 174,240 plants, each having 
a space of six inches square, which is rather 
closer than they could flourish together; so 
that, allowing twelve thousand bad seeds, an 
acre would be thickly clothed by the progeny 
of a single plant. At the same rate of in- 
crease, the grandchildren would cover a space 
slightly exceeding the island of Anglesea ; and 
the great grandchildren of a single plant would 
nearly (in the proportion of 47 to 50) clothe 
with one uniform green carpet the entire 
surface of the land throughout the globe. 

What checks this unlimited multiplication 
cannot be told. The minute seeds within 
their light coats are well fitted for wide dis- 
semination ; and I have several times observed 
seedlings in my orchard, and in a newly- 
planted wood, which must have come from 
some little distance. Yet it is notorious that 
Orchids are sparingly distributed ; for in- 
stance, this district is highly favourable to the 
order, for within a mile of my house nine 
genera, including thirteen species, grow ; but 
of these one alone, Orchis morio, is suffi- 
ciently abundant to make a conspicuous 
feature in the vegetation ; as is 0. maculata 

Q 3 


Digitized by Google 



346 


SPECIAL ADAPTATIONS 


Chap. VII. 


in a lesser degree in open woodlands. Most 
of the other species, though not deserving to 
be called rare, are sparingly distributed ; yet, 
if their seeds or seedlings were not largely and 
habitually destroyed, any one of them would, 
as we have just seen, immediately cover the 
whole land. 

I have now nearly finis hed this too lengthy 
volume. It has, I think, been shown that 
Orchids exhibit an almost endless diversity 
of beautiful adaptations. When this or that 
part has been spoken of as contrived for 
some special purpose, it must not be supposed 
that it was originally always formed for this 
sole purpose. The regular course of events 
seems to be, that a part which originally 
served for one purpose, by slow changes be- 
comes adapted for widely different purposes. 
To give an instance : in all the Ophrese, the 
long and nearly rigid caudicle manifestly 
serves for the application of the pollen-grains 
to the stigma, when the pollinium attached to 
an insect is transported from flower to flower ; 
and the anther opens widely that the pollinium 
may be easily withdrawn ; but in the Bee 
Ophrys, the caudicle, by a slight increase in 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VH. INFINITELY DIVERSIFIED. 347 

length, and decrease in thickness, and by the 
anther opening a little more widely, becomes 
specially adapted for the very different purpose 
of self-fertilisation, through the combined aid 
of the gravity of the pollen-mass and the 
vibration of the flower. Every gradation 
between these two states would be possible, 
— of which we have -seen partial proof in 0. 
arachnites. 

Again the elasticity of the pedicel of the 
pollinium in some Yandese is adapted to free 
the pollen-masses out of their anther-cases ; 
but by further slight modifications, the elas- 
ticity of the pedicel becomes specially adapted 
to shoot out the pollinia to a distance'. The 
great cavity in the labellum of many Yandese 
serves to attract insects, but in Mormodes 
ignea it is greatly reduced in size, and only 
serves to keep the labellum in its proper posi- 
tion on the summit of the column. From the 
analogy of many plants we may infer that a 
long spur-like nectary is primarily adapted to 
secrete and hold a store of nectar; but in 
many Orchids it has so far lost this function, 
as only to contaip fluid between its two coats. 
In those Orchids, in which the nectary con- 


Digitized by Google 



348 


SPECIAL ADAPTATIONS 


Chap. VII. 


tains both free nectar and fluid in the inter- 
cellular spaces, we can see how a passage from 
one state to the other could have been effected, 
namely, by less and less nectar being secreted 
from the inner membrane, and more and more 
being retained within the intercellular spaces. 
Other analogous cases could be given. 

.Although an organ may not have been 
originally formed for some special purpose, if 
it now serves for this end we are justified in 
saying that it is specially contrived for it. 
On the same principle, if a man were to make 
a machine for some special purpose, but were 
to use old wheels, springs, and pulleys, only 
slightly altered, the whole machine, with all 
its parts, might be said to be specially con- 
trived for that purpose. Thus throughout 
nature almost every part of each living being 
has probably served, in a slightly modified 
condition, for diverse purposes, and has acted 
in the living machinery of many ancient and 
distinct specific forms. 

In my examination of Orchids, hardly any 
fact has so much struck me as the endless 
diversity of structure, — the prodigality of re- 
sources, — for gaining the very same end, 


Digitized by 


Google 



Chap. VII. INFINITELY DIVERSIFIED. 349 . 

namely, the fertilisation of one flower by the 
pollen of another. The fact to a certain ex- 
tent is intelligible on the principle of natural 
selection. As all the parts of a flower are 
co-ordinated, if slight variations in any one 
part are preserved from being beneficial to the 
plant, then the other parts will generally have 
to be modified in some corresponding manner. 
But certain parts may not vary at all, or may 
not vary in the simplest corresponding manner, 
and those variations, whatever their nature 
may be, which will bring all the parts into more 
perfect harmony with each other, will be seized 
on and preserved by natural selection. 

To give a simple illustration : in many 
Orchids the ovarium (but sometimes the foot- 
stalk) becomes for a period twisted, causing 
the labellum to hang downwards, so that in- 
sects can easily visit the flower ; but from slow 
changes in the form and position of the petals, 
or from new sorts of insects visiting the flower, 
it might become advantageous to the plant 
that the labellum should resume its normal 
upward position, as is actually the case with 
Malaxis paludosa ; this change, it is obvious, 
might be simply effected by the continued 


Digitized by Google 



350 


SPECIAL ADAPTATIONS 


Chap. YIL 


selection of varieties which had their ovarium 
a little less twisted ; but if the plant only 
afforded varieties with the ovarium more 
twisted, the same end could be attained by 
their selection until the flower had turned 
completely round on its axis : this seems to 
have occurred with the Malaxis, for the label- 
lum has acquired its present upward position, 
and the ovarium is twisted to excess. 

Again, we have seen that in most Vandeae 
there is a plain relation between the depth of 
the stigmatic chamber and the length of the 
pedicel, by which the pollen-masses are in- 
serted ; now if the chamber became slightly 
less deep from any change in the form of the 
column or any other unknown cause, the 
shortening of the pedicel would be the simplest 
corresponding change ; but if the pedicel did 
not happen to vary in length, any the slightest 
tendency to an upward curvature from elas- 
ticity as in Phalsenopsis, or to a backward 
hygrometric movement as in one of the Maxil- 
larias, would be preserved, and the tendency 
would be continually augmented by selection ; 
thus the pedicel, as far as its action is con- 
cerned, would be modified in the same manner 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VIL 


INFINITELY DIVERSIFIED. 


351 


as if it had been shortened. Such processes 
carried on during many thousand generations 
jn various ways, with the several parts of the 
flower, would create an endless diversity of 
coadapted structures for the same general 
purpose. This view affords, I believe, the 
key which partly solves the problem of the 
vast diversity of structure adapted for closely 
analogous ends in many large groups of 
organic beings. 

The more I study nature, the more I be- 
come impressed with ever-increasing force 
with the conclusion, that the contrivances and 
beautiful adaptations slowly acquired through 
each part occasionally varying in a slight 
degree but in many ways, with the preserva- 
tion or natural selection of those variations 
which are beneficial to the organism under the 
complex and ever-varying conditions of life, 
transcend in an incomparable degree the con- 
trivances and adaptations which the most 
fertile imagination of the most imaginative 
man could suggest with unlimited time at his 
disposal. 

The use of each trifling detail of structure is 
far from a barren search to those who believe 


Digitized by Google 



352 


THE IMPORTANCE OP TRIFLING Chap. VII. 


in natural selection. When a naturalist casu- 
ally takes up an organic being, and does not 
study its whole life (imperfect though that 
study will ever be), he naturally doubts whe- 
ther each trifling point can be of any use, or 
indeed whether it be due to any general law. 
Some naturalists believe that numberless struc- 
tures have been created for the sake of mere 
variety and beauty, — much as a workman 
would make a set of different patterns. I, for 
one, have often and often doubted whether 
this or that detail of structure could be of any 
service; yet, if of no good, these structures 
could not have been modelled by the natural 
preservation of useful variations ; such details 
could only be vaguely accounted for by the 
direct action of the conditions of life, or the 
mysterious laws of correlation of growth. 

To give nearly all the instances of trifling 
details of structure in the flowers of Orchids, 
which are certainly of high importance, would 
be to recapitulate a great portion of this 
volume. But I will recall to the reader’s 
memory a few cases. I do not here refer to 
the fundamental framework of the plant, such 
as the remnants of the fifteen primary organs 


Digitized by 


Google 



Chap. VII. 


DETAILS OF STRUCTUBE. 


353 


arranged alternately in the five whorls ; for 
nearly all those who believe in the modification 
of organic beings will admit that their presence 
is due to inheritance from a remote parent- 
form. A series of facts with respect to the 
use of the variously shaped and placed petals 
and sepals has just been enumerated. So, 
again, the importance of the slight differences 
in the shape of the caudicle of the pollinium 
of the Bee Ophrys, compared with that of the 
other species of the genus, has just been re- 
ferred to : to this might be added the doubly- 
bent caudicle of the Fly Ophrys : indeed, the 
important relation of the length and shape of 
the caudicle, with reference to the position of 
the stigma, might be cited throughout whole 
tribes. The solid projecting knob of the an- 
ther in Epipactis palustris, which does not in- 
clude pollen, when moved by insects, liberates 
the pollen-masses. In Cephalanthera grandi- 
flora, the upright position of the flower, and 
its almost closed condition, protect from dis- 
turbance the slightly coherent pillars of pollen. 
The length and elasticity of the filament of 
the anther in certain species of Dendrobium 
apparently serves for self-fertilisation, if in- 


Digitized by Google 



354 


CAUSE OF THE PERFECTION OF Chap. VII. 


sects fail to transport the pollen-masses. The 
slight forward inclination of the crest of the 
rostellum in Listera prevents the anther-case 
being caught when the viscid matter explodes* 
The elasticity of the lip of the rostellum in 
Orchis causes it to spring up again when one 
pollen-mass is removed, thus keeping ready 
for action the second viscid disc, which other- 
wise would be wasted. The two nectar-secret- 
ing spots in the Frog Orchis, beneath the viscid 
discs at the base of the labellum, and the 
medial nectary in front of the stigma, are ap- 
parently necessary for the fertilisation of the 
flower. No one who had not studied Orchids 
would have suspected that these and many 
other small details of structure were of the 
highest importance to each species ; and that 
consequently, if the species were exposed to 
new conditions of life, and the structure of the 
several parts varied ever so little, such small 
details of structure might be modified by 
natural selection. These cases afford a good 
lesson of caution with respect to the import- 
ance, in other organic beings, of apparently 
trifling particulars of structure. 

It . may naturally be inquired, why do 


. : _ ^ Digitized by 


Google 



Chap. VII. THE CONTRIVANCES IN ORCHIDS. 355 

Orchids exhibit so many perfect contrivances ? 
From the observations of 0. K. Sprengel, and 
from my own, I am sure that many other 
plants offer, in the means of fertilisation, 
analogous adaptations of high perfection ; but 
it seems that they are really more numerous 
with Orchids than with most other plants. To 
a certain extent the inquiry can be answered. 
As each ovule requires at least one, probably 
more than one, pollen-grain,* and as the seeds 
produced by Orchids are so inordinately nu- 
merous, we can see that large masses of pollen 
would have to be left on the stigma of each 
flower. - Even in the Neotteae, which have 
granular pollen, with the grains tied together 
only by weak threads, I have observed that 
considerable masses of pollen are generally 
left on the stigmas. Hence we can perhaps 
understand the use of the grains cohering in 
large waxy masses, as they do in so many 
tribes, so as to prevent waste in the act of 
transportal. Most plants produce pollen enough 
to fertilise several flowers, even when each 
flower has several stigmas. But as the two 

* Gartner, ‘ Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Befruchtung, , 1844, 
a. 135. 


Digitized by Google 



356 


CAUSE OP THE PERFECTION OP Chap. VII. 


confluent stigmas of Orchids require so much 
pollen, its elaboration, if proportional in 
amount to that in most other plants, would 
have been extravagant in the highest degree, 
and exhausting to the individual. To save 
this waste and exhaustion, special and admir- 
able contrivances were necessary for safely 
placing the pollen-masses on the stigma ; and 
thus we can partially understand why Orchids 
have been more highly endowed in this re- 
spect than most other plants. 

The simple fact that many Yandeae have 
only two pollen-masses, and that, from their 
coherence, some Malaxeae have only a single 
pollen-mass, necessitates that extraordinary 
pains should have been taken in their fertilisa- 
tion, otherwise these plants would have been 
barren. The existence of a single pollen-mass, 
so that all the pollen-grains from one flower 
cannot possibly fertilise more than a single 
stigma, occurs, I believe, in no other plants. 
The case is partially analogous with that of 
seeds : many flowers produce a multitude of 
seeds, several produce a singles seed ; very 
many flowers produce a countless number of 
pollen-grains ; some Orchid-flowers produce, 


Digitized by 


Google 



Chap. VII. THE CONTRIVANCES IN ORCHIDS. 


357 


as far as the power of fertilising other flowers 
is concerned, a single pollen-mass, though 
really consisting of a multitude of pollen- 
grains. 

Notwithstanding that such care has heed 
taken that the pollen of Orchids should not 
be wasted, we see that throughout the vast 
Orchidean order, — including, according to 
Lindley,* 433 genera, and probably about 
6000 species, — the act of fertilisation is almost 
invariably left to insects. This assertion can 
hardly be considered rash, after the exami- 
nation of so many British and exotic genera 
scattered through the main Tribes, which 
generally have a nearly uniform structure. 
In all plants in which insects play an im- 
portant part in the act of fertilisation, there 
will be a good chance of pollen being carried 
from one flower to another. But in Orchids 
we have seen numerous adaptations, — such 
as the movements of the pollinia after their 
removal in order to acquire a proper position, 
— the slow movement of the labellum or 
rostellum to allow the entrance of the pollen- 
masses, — the separation of the sexes in some 
• ‘ Gardener’s Chronicle,’ March 1, 1862, p. 192. 


Digitized by Google 



358 


CONCLUSION. 


Chap. VII. 


instances — which render it certain that in 
these cases the pollen of one flower or of 
one plant is habitually transported to another 
flower or plant. As this transportal increases 
the risk of loss, it necessitates and still further 
explains the extraordinary care bestowed on > 
the contrivances for fertilisation. 

Self-fertilisation is a rare event with Or- 
chids. In Cephalanthera grandiflora it occurs, 
but in a very imperfect degree ; and the early 
penetration of the stigma by the flower’s own 
pollen-tubes seems to be fully as much deter- 
mined by the support thus given to the pillars 
of pollen, as by the production of a small 
proportion of seed : certainly the fertilisation 
of this Orchid is aided by insects. In some 
species of Dendrobium self-fertilisation appa- 
rently occurs, but only if insects accident- 
ally fail in removing the flower’s own single 
pollen-mass. In Cypripedium, the Frog Or- 
chis, and perhaps in a few other cases, it will 
depend on the manner (at present, unknown) 
in which insects first insert their probosces by 
the one or the other entrance, — whether the 
flower’s own pollen, or .that of another flower, 
is habitually placed on the stigma ; but in 


Digitized by Google 



Chap. VII. 


CONCLUSION. 


359 


these cases there will assuredly always be a 
good chance of the stigma being fertilised by 
pollen brought from another flower. In the 
Bee Ophrys alone, as, far as I have seen, there 
are special and perfectly efficient contrivances 
for self-fertilisation, combined, however, in 
the most paradoxical maimer, with manifest 
adaptations for the occasional transport by 
insects of the pollinia from one flower to 
another, as in the other species of the same 
gejius. 

Considering how precious the pollen of 
Orchids evidently is, and what care has been 
bestowed on its organisation and on the ac- 
cessory parts ; — considering that the anther 
always stands close behind or above the 
stigma, self-fertilisation would have been an 
incomparably safer process than the trans- 
portal of the pollen from flower to flower. It 
is an astonishing fact that self-fertilisation 
should not have been an habitual occurrence. 
It apparently demonstrates to us that there 
must be something injurious in the process. 
Nature thus tells us, in the most emphatic 
manner, that she abhors perpetual self-fertili- 
sation. This conclusion seems to be of high 


Digitized by Google 



360 


CONCLUSION. 


Chap. YD. 


importance, and perhaps justifies the lengthy 
details given in this volume. For may we 
not further infer as probable, in accordance 
with the belief of the vast majority of the 
breeders of our domestic productions, that 
marriage between near relations is likewise 
in some way injurious, — that some unknown 
great good is derived from the union of indi- 
viduals which have been kept distinct for many 
generations ? 


Index. 


Digitized by Google 


INDEX 


ACERAS. 

A. 

Aceras anthropophora, 19. 

Aceras, monstrous flowers of, 324. 

Acontia luctuosa with pollen-masses, 

Acropera, structure of flower, 203. 

Acropera, movements of pollinia. 
189. 

Acropera, vessels of, 296. 

Adaptations, apparently of small 
importance, 351. 

Adaptations, diversity of, 348. 

Adaptations, how far special, 346. 

Aerides, nectary of, 276. 

Aerides, movement of pollinia, 189, 
192. 

Angrflecum, nectary of, 276. 

Angraecum, pollinia of, 186, 188. 

Angrsecum sesquipedale, 197. 

Antennae of the rostellum in Cata- 
setum, 220, 225. 

Anthers, rudimentary, 299. 

Apostasia, 308. 

Apostasia, relations of, 331. 

Arethuseae, 269. 

B. 

Babington, Prof., on the rostellum, 
320. 

Baillon, M., on Catasetum, 229. 

Barkeria, 164. 

Bateman, Mr., obligations to, 114, 
158, 197. 

Bauer, Mr., on pollen-grains of 
Cephalanthera, 104. 

Bauer, Mr., on pollen-masses of 
Bletia, 162. 

Bauer, Mr., on utriculi of stigma, 
206. 

Bee Ophrys, 63. 

Bentham, Mr., on monstrous flowers 
of Orchis pyramidalis, 47. 1 


CATASETUM. 

Bletia, 164. 

Bolbophyllum, 169. 

Bonatea speciosa, 87. 

Bonatea speciosa, pollinia of, 330. 
Bonatea speciosa, vessels of, 302. 
Bond, Mr. F., on moths with at- 
tached pollinia, 35. 

Brongniart, M., on Catasetum, 
236. 

Brongniart on secretion of nectar, 
51. 

Brongniart on Uropedium, 297. 
Brongniart on vessels of Orchids, 
290. 

Bronn, Prof., on the grade of or- 
ganic beings, 333. 

Brown, R., on the fertilisation of 
Orchids, 3. 

Brown, R., on viscidity of the stigma, 
17. 

Brown, R., on Ophrys apifera, 65. 
Brown, R., on the utriculi of the 
stigma, 206. 

Brown, R., on homologies of Orchids, 
289. 

Brown, R., on the rostellum of 
Orchids, 308. 

Brown, R., on Apostasia, 331. 
Butterfly orchis, 83. 

Butterflies with attached pollinia, 
36. 

C. 

Caleena, 172. 

Calanthe, structure of flower, 195. 
Calanthe, nectary of, 280, 283. 
Carpenter, Dr., on the forms of 
Catasetum, 236. 

Catasetidae, 211. 

Catasetum callosum, 231. 

Catasetum saccatum, 214. 

Catasetum tridentatum, 231. 
Catasetum tridentatum a male Or- 
chid, 237. 


R 


Digitized by Google 



362 


INDEX. 


CATASETUM. 

Catasetum, spiral vessels of, 296. 

Catasetum, curious form of the ros- 
tellum, 322. 

Cattleya, structure of flower, 160. 

Cattleya, vessels of, 296. 

Gaudicles of pollinia in the Van- 
defiB, 182. 

Caudicles, development of, 315. 

Caudicle, structure of, 327. 

Cephalanthera grandiflora, 104. 

Cephalanthera grandiflora, how 
structure might have been ac- 
quired, 155. 

Cephalanthera grandiflora, vessels 
of, 296. 

Cephalanthera grandiflora, number 
of seed, 344. 

Clinandrum, vessels of, 298. 

Coelogyne, 164. 

Contrivances apparently of small 
importance, 351. 

Contrivances, how far special, 346. 

Coryanthes, nectary of, 277. 

Cycnoches, 268. 

Cymbidium, 188. 

Cymbidium, structure of pollinia, 
314, 327. 

Cypripedium, structure of flower, 
270. 

Cypripedium, secretion from hairs, 
279. 

Cypripedium, vessels of, 296. 

Cypripedium, pollen of, 326. 

Cypripedium, relations of, 331. 

D. 

Dendrobinm, structure of, 172. 

Dendrobidae, relations of, 332. 

Dickie, Prof., obligations to, 152. 

Disc, viscidity of in the OphresB, 
51. 

Disc, viscidity of, in the Vandese 
281. 

Disc of Catasetum, viscidity of, 229. 

Discs double in the Ophre®, 319. 

Diversity of structAe for same pur- 
pose, 348. 

Ducts of Orchids, 290. 


gymnadenia. 

E. 

Epidendre®, 159. 

Epidendre®, relations of* 332. 
Epidendrum, structure of, 165. 
Epidendrum, minute structure of 
rostellum, 311. 

Epipactis latifolia, structure o£ 102. 
Epipactis latifolia transplanted, 38. 
Epipactis palustris, structure of* 95. 
Epipactis, vessels of, 296. 

Epipogium, 270. 

Eulophia, 189. 

Eulophia, nectary of; 283. 

Evelyna, 164. 

Evelyna, nectary of, 277. 

Evelyna, vessels of, 296. 

F. 

Fertilisation, summary on, 357. 
Fertility of English Orchids, 39. 
Flowers, use of external envelopes, 
339. 

Fly Ophrys, 54. 

Frog orchis, structure of flower, 76. 
Frog orchis, secretion of nectar, 52, 
77. 

Ch 

Galeandra, 188. 

Gartner on viscid matter of stigma, 
310. 

Glossodia, 293. 

Goodyera repens, 112. 

Goodyera, vessels of, 296. 

Goodyera discolor, 114, 209. 

Gordon, Eev. G., obligations to, 

112 . 

Gradation of organs, 307. 

Gray, Prof. Asa, on structure of 
Spiranthes, 123. 

Gymnadenia albida, 82. 

Gymnadenia conopsea, structure of, 

79 . 

Gymnadenia conopsea, secretion of 
nectar, 50, 52. 

Gymnadenia conopsea, vessels of, 
297. 

Gymnadenia conopsea, movements 
of the pollinia, 336. 


Digitized by Google 



INDEX. 


363 


HABENARIA. 

H. 

Habenaria bifolia, 88. 

Habenaria chlorantha, 83. 
Habenaria viridis, 76. 

Habenaria, secretion of nectar, 50, 
52. 

Habenaria, vessels of, 297, 302. 
Herminium monorchis, 74. 
Homologies of Orchids, 286. 
Hooker, Dr., on Listera, 3. 

Hooker, Dr., obligations to, 158. 
Hooker, Dr., on movements of la- 
bellum, 172. 

Hooker, Dr., on structure of Listera 
ovata, 139. 

Horwood, Mr., assistance from, 158. 

I. 

Insects, frequency of visits to Or- 
chids, 39. 

Irmisch on flower-bud of Cypripe- 
dium, 297. 

Irmisch on Neottia, 153. 

Irmisch on Epipogium, 270. 

K 

Kriinitz, secretion of nectar, 45. 
Kurr, on nectar secreted from brac- 
te®, 278. 

L. 

Labellum, easily vibratile, 171. 
Labellum of Sarcanthus, 281. 
Labellum, excrescences of, 283. 
Labellum, cup of, not secreting 
nectar in the VandesB, 283. 
Labellum, vessels o£ 294, 302. 
Labellum, homologies of, 302. 
Labellum, important uses of, 341. 
Lselia, 164. 

Laurel, secretion of nectar from 
leaves, 278. 

Lepidoptera with attached pollinia, 
36. 

Limodorum, 270. 

Lindley, Dr., obligations to, 158. 
Lindley, Dr., arrangement of Or- 
chids, 159. 

Lindley, Dr., on forms of Oatasetum, 
236. 


MYANTHUS. 

Lindley, Dr., on forms of Cycnoches, 
269. 

Lindley, Dr., on homologies of Or- 
chids, 290. 

Lindley, Dr., on Apostasia, 331. 

Lindley, Dr., on number of genera 
and species, 357. 

Link on homologies of Orchids, 290, 
295. 

Liparis, vessels of, 296. 

Listera cordata, 152. 

Listera ovata, structure of, 139. 

Lycaste, 188. 

Lycaste, pollen of, 327. 

M. 

Malaxess, 166. 

Malaxis paludosa transplanted, 38. 

Malaxis paludosa, 130. 

Malaxis, vessels o£ 296, 298. 

Malaxis, clinandrum of, 298. 

Malden, Rev. B. S., obligations to, 
43, 78. 

Male flowers of Acropera, 203; of 
Catasetum, 237. 

Marshal], Mr., on sterility of trans- 
planted Orchids, 38. 

Masdevallia fenestrata, 168. 

Maxillaria, movement of pollinia, 
189, 191. 

Meniere, M., on insects visiting Or- 
chids, 35. 

M6ni£re, M., on movements of Cata- 
setum, 225, 229. 

Meniere, M., on secretion of nectar, 
277, 283. 

Miltonia, pollinia of, 186, 188. 

Mycrostylis Rhedii, 135, 167. 

Monachanthus viridis, 239. 

More, Mr. A. G., on fertility of Bee 
Ophrys, 67. 

More, Mr. A. G., on Epipactis palus- 
tris, 95, 99. 

Mormodes ignea, 249. 

Mormodes, sp. . . . ? 265. 

Moths with attached pollinia, 36. 

Moths, intellect #f, 46. 

Movements of the pollinia, 92, 335. 

Musk orchis, 74. 

Myanthus barbatus, 239, 245. 

R 2 


Digitized by Google 



364 


INDEX. 


NECTAR. 


V. 

Nectar, secretion of, by British 
OphretB, 45, 50. 

Nectar, secretion of, in foreign Or- 
chids, 276, 280. 

Nectar secreted from brae teas, &c., 
278. 

Nectary of British Ophrese, 45, 50. 
Nectary cut off to test intellect of 
moths, 47. 

Nectary, length of, in Angrocum, 
198. 

Nectary, vessels of, 294. 

Neottia nidus-avis, 152. 

Neottese, relations of, 332. 

Nevill, Lady Dorothy, obligations to, 
158. 

Nicotians, stigma of, 310. 

0 . 

Odontoglossum, 189. 

Oliver, Prof., obligations to, 158. 
Oncidium, pollinia of, 185, 189, 192. 
Ophreae, relations of, 332. 

Ophrese, vessels of, 300. 

Ophrys apifera, structure of, 63. 
Ophiys apifera, fertility of, 66. 
Ophrys arachnites, 72. 

Ophiys aranifera, 60. 

Ophrys muscifera, structure of, 55. 
Ophiys muscifera, fertility o£ 59. 
Ophiys muscifera transplanted, 38. 
Orchis fusca, 19. 

O. fusca, sterility of, 43. 

Orchis latifolia, 19. 

O. latifolia, fertility of, 42. 

O. latifolia, secretion of nectar, 45. 
Orchis maculata, 19. 

O. maculata transplanted, 38. 

O. maculata, number of seed, 344. 
Orchis mascula, 9, 34. 

O. mascula, movement of pollinia 
16. 

Orchis morio, 19, 33. 

O. morio, fertility of, in cold season, 
39. 

O. morio, secretion of nectar, 45, 
48. 


RODRIGUEZ (A. 

Orchis pyramidalis, 20. 

O. pyramidalis, secretion of nectar, 
46,49. 

O. pyramidalis, fertility of, in differ- 
ent stations, 39. 

O. pyramidalis, monstrous flowers 
of 47. v 

O. pyramidalis, vessels of, 296. 

O. pyramidalis, movements of the 
pollinia, 26, 337. 

Orchis ustulata, 31. 

Oxenden, Mr. G. 0., obligations to, 
31. 

P. 

Parfitt, Mr., on attached pollinia, 
36. 

Parker, Mr. R , obligations to, 158. 

Pedicel of pollinium, 317. 

Percy, Dr., analysis of labellum, 
284. 

Peristylus viridis, 76. 

Peristylus viridis, secretion of nectar, 
52, 77. 

Petals, uses of, 339. 

Phaius, 164. 

Phalsenopsis, viscidity of stigma, 
183. 

Phalsenopsis, movements of pollinia, 
194. 

Pleurothallis, 166. 

Pollen-masses, rudimentary in Mona- 
chanthus, 241. 

Pollen-masses, gradation of, 323. 

Pollen-tubes emitted within the 
anther, 324. 

Pollinia, summary on their move- 
ments, 91, 335. 

Pollinia of the Vande®, 185. 

Pollinia of Catasetum, ejection o£ 
218. 

Pollinia of Monnodes, ejection o£ 
256. 

Pollinia, attachment to the ros- 
tellum, 314. 

Pollinia, gradation o£ 323. 

B. 

Rodgers, Mr., obligations to, 158. 

Rodgers, Mr., on Myanthus, 236. 

Rodriguezia, 189, 193. 


Digitized by Google 



INDEX. 


365 


ROSTELLUM. 

^Rostellum, a single organ in the 
OphresB, 54, 319. 

Bostellum of the Vandese, 179. 

Bostellum aborted, 301. 

Bostellum, gradation of, 307, 312. 

Bostellum, minute structure of, 311. 

Bostellum, crest o£ in the OphresB, 
320. 

Bostellum complex in Catasetum, 
322. 

Bucker, Mr., obligations to, 158, 214, 
231, 249. 

8 . 

Saccolabium, viscidity of stigma, 
183. 

Saccolabium, movements of pollinia, 
189. 

Saint-Hilaire, Aug., on pollen of 
Orchids, 326. 

Sarcanthus, pollinia of, 185, 189. 

Sarcanthus, movements of pollinia, 
189. 

Sarcanthus, labellum of, 281. 

Schoraburgk, Sir R., on Catasetum, 
236. 

Secretion of nectar, 44, 276, 280. 

Seed, number of, 343. 

Self-fertilisation, summary on, 358. 

Sepals, uses of, 339. 

Sexes of Orchids, 203, 236. 

Smith, Mr. F., on Bombus with at- 
tached pollen-masses, 164. 

Smith, Sir James, on position of 
flowers in Malaxis, 131. 

Smith, Mr. G., on bees visiting the 
Bee Ophrys, 68. 

Sophronitis, 164. 

Spiranthes autumnalis, 116. 

Spiranthes autumnalis, vessels of, 
296. 

Sprengel, C. K., sterility of Orchis 
militaris, 44. 

Sprengel, secretion of nectar by 
Orchis, 45. 

Sprengel on transportal of pollinia of 
Epipactis, 103. 

Sprengel on Listera, 139, 146. 

Sprengel, value of work, 340. 

Stamens, rudimentary, 299. 


Z YGOPET ALUM . 

i Stanhopea, pollinia of, 185. 

I Stelis, 167. 

| Sterility of English Orchids, 39. 
Stigma, viscidity of, in the Yandese, 
183. 

Stigma, utriculi of, 206, 237, 264. 
Stigma, state of, in Catasetum, 237. 
Stigma, gradation o£ 309, 312. 
Stigma, minute structure of, 311. 
Structure, diversity of, for same pur- 
pose, 348. 

Structures of apparently small im- 
portance, 351. 

T. 

Turnbull, Mr. G. H., of Down, obli- 
gations to, 158. 

IT. 

Uropedium, 297. 

Utriculi of stigma, 206, 237, 264. 

Y. 

Vanda, 189. 

Yandese, 178. 

Yandese, relations of, 332. 

Vanilla, fertilisation of, 270. 

Vanilla, secretion of nectar, 278. 
Veitch, Mr., obligations to, 158, 214. 
Vessels, spiral, of Orchids, 290. 
Vicia, secretion of nectar from sti- 
pules, 278. 

Viscidity of disc in British Ophrese, 
51. 

Viscidity of disc of Catasetum, 229. 
Viscidity of disc in Vandese, 281. 
Viscidity of rostellum and stigma, 
309, 314. 

W. 

Wallis, Mr., obligations to, 130. 
Warrea, nectary of, 284. 

Warrea, pollinia of, 188. 

Weddell, Dr., on hybrids of Aceras, 
19. 

Westwood, Prof., on bees visiting 
Orchids, 35. 

Z. 

Zygopetalum, 188. 


S 


Digitized by Google 



LONDON: 


PRINTED BT WILLIAM CLOWSS AND SONS, STAMFORD STREET, 
AND CHARING CROSS.' 


Digitized by 


Google 


Digitized by 



Digitized by 


Googl 



Digitized by 


Google 



I 



Digitized by Google 



Digitized by 



Digitized by 





1 


I 


Digitized by Google 



