Uf * 



-; u^t^c^^ 




SP^^VQ 



syc^-oxs 



ANNUAL REPORT 





or the 




rlfttts, tytUwm k $mt 




RAILROAD COMPANY, 



TO THE 




GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA. 



IV O V E MBBB, ISO 1. 



at 



BATON ROUGE: 

T A Y L II, S JATE PRINTER. 
186L 



^^^,^(^11^ 



i\o~<~^~QjG 



g^QP^S>iW g< 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OP THE 






it) ®rl#ms, dtydimjiajs & iitat tester 



RAILROAD COMPANY, 



TO THE 



GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA. 



NO V ElMCRER, 1861. 



BATON EOUGE: 

J M TAYLOR, STATE PEINTEE, 

1861. 



REPORT 



To His Excellency, Thomas 0. Moore, 

Governor of the State of Louisiana : 

Sir — In obedience to an act of the Legislature of the State, No. 117, ap- 
proved March 15, 1856, the President and Directors of the New Orleans, 
Opelousas and G-reat YVestern Railroad Company respectfully submit the 
following report : 

The accounts of this Company are made up annually, to 31st December. 
These accounts were given in our last report to the stockholders, showing 
the actual condition of affairs at that date. A printed copy of said report 
is herewith furnished for reference. At the close of the present year a 
full statement of receipts and disbursements will be made, in the annual 
report to the stockholders, copies of which will bo furnished to your Excel- 
lency and to the presiding officers and members of the two Houses of the 
General Assembly. 

The capital stock of this Company, as fixed by the charter, is$6, 000,000, 

subscriptions to which were made as follows : 

By the State of Louisiana, payable in bonds $1,200,000 

• • city of New Orleans • • • • 1,500,000 

By the city and parishes, by taxes, the stock to be is- 
sued to the tax payers, as follows : 

By the city of New Orleans §250,000 

)arish of Orleans, right bank 75,000 

St. Mary.. 156,600 

St. Landry. 115,625 

Lafayette 33,400 

St. Martin 103,775 



734,400 
Less annulled by St. Martin, tax illegally assessed. . . 103,775 



630 625 
Individual subscriptions .• 762,800 



Total subscriptions to the capital of $6,0000,000 . . $4,093,425 



PAYMENTS 

State of Louisiana, in bonds, $ 650,000 00 

City of New Orleans, in bonds 1,500,000 00 

City of New Orleans, tax $ 250,000 00 

Less reimbursed* $ 9,634 61 

Less, unpaid 60,335 42 69,070 03 paid 

: 180,029 97 



Orleans, right bank, tax. 75,000 00 

Less;, reimbursed 25,750 37 

Less, unpaid 1,255 3S 27,007 75 paid 



St. Mary, tax 150,600 

Less, reimbursement.... 17,158 85 

Less, unpaid 10,986 66 34,145 51 paid 



St. Landry, tax 115,625 00 

Less, reimbursed 31,902 35 

Less, unpaid 21,546 87 53,449 22 paid 



47,992 25 



122,454 49 



62,175 78 

Lafayette, tax 33,400 00 

Less, reimbursed 12 00 

Less, unpaid 16,310 26 16,322 26 paid 

17,077 74 

673,664 64 
Total payments in cash and bonds $3,253,394 87 

UNPAID. 

State $550,000 00 

City, exclusive of interest 60,335 42 

Orleans, right bank, interest 1,255 38 

St. Mary, exclnsive of interest 16,988 66 

St. Landry, • • . • ■ 21,546 87 

Lafayette, • • • • . 16,310 26 

Individuals, • • • • 89,135 36 



Individual subscription.. 762,800 00 

Less, unpaid 89,135 36 paid 



Remaining unpaid 755,569 95 

Add reimbursements to this time 84,460 18 



840,030 13 



Total, paid and unpaid $4,093,425 00 

By the charter the State is to furnish bonds for its share of the capital 

stock in proportion of one-fourth of actual payments by other subscribers. 

These payments, amounting to $2,003,394 87, and one-fourth being 

$050, S4S 72, the payment of $650,000 in bonds is the whole amount that 

can be claimed by the Company at this time ; and this amount of bonds 

has been furnished, constituting the State owner of one-fifth of the present 

paid up capital stock. » 

Taxes returned, under 13th section of the charter, to tax payers who are ei^kholders by .sub- 
scription. 



5 



The tax subscription by the city was $250,000, and a tax of one- 
sixth of one per cent was levied to pay the same. The assessed value of 
property was $62,779,237, which, at one-sixth per cent., produced only 
$209,264 12, and as the ordinance authorizing the tax was submitted to 
and sanctioned by a vote of the people, there are now no legal means for 
collecting" the difference cf 3-10,735 88, and this sum is considered null 
and lost to the company. 

The tax, then, was $209,264 12 

From which, deducting reimbursements 9,634 61 

The balance to be collected was $199,629 51 

The collections made by the city and paid over to the Com- 
pany are . .'. . $180,029 97 

Uncollected $ 19,599 54 

This balance is represented as being mostly in small sums, and many 
debtors dead, failed, or removed from the city, special collectors have 
been employed, but, to the extent of the above balance, we have failed in 
getting payment. 

By the preceding it will be seen that of the fixed capital of $6,000,000, 
only $4,093,425 was subscribed ; and that of this subscription the amount 

paid in cash and bonds was $3,253,394 87 

The discount on sales of the State bonds was. $ 25,300 76 

And on city bonds 284,834 98 

310,135 74 

Total amount of capital stock, actually 

realized, $2,943,259 13 

With less than half of the fixed capital of the Company realized, and in 
view of the immense importance of an early completion of the road, the 
Board of Directors decided, in 1859, to issue first mortgage eight per cent, 
bonds to the amount of $2,000,000, and our report of January, 1860, 
concluded with these words : li With the remaining bonds and the very 
valuable lands to be acquired as we proceed with the construction of the 
road, we can have ample resources for paying off our whole floating deb^ 
and for carrying out all the requirements of the charter. It remains, 
however, to be seen whether they who have such a deep interest in our 
success, will, by purchasing the bonds, aid in pushing the work rapidly 
through, or whether the road is to be constructed slowly, as means are 
grudgingly provided, and the great benefits to result from -its completion 
be unwisely delayed." 

In the first year 340 bonds were sold, one -third of which were taken by 
Directors of the Company. The total number disposed of to this time 
is only 569, all at 80 percent., giving to the purchasers 10 per cent, on in- 



6 

Vestment ; and this, notwithstanding the most strenuous exertions on the 
part of the Board to interest our merchants, planters and public institu- 
tions in the construction of a road promising incalculable benefits to the 
city and the section of country through which it runs. This has been 
mot from want of confidence in the bonds, but from the fact that throughout 
the past year money could be invested in personal securities at a mueh 
Mgher rate of interest. 

Notwithstanding these discouragements, and the great desire of the 
Board, so frequently expressed, to reduce our floating debt, and, if pos- 
sible, to pay it off entirely, they determined, as the work admitted of no 
delay, to contract for crossing Berwick's Bay and for continuing the road 
through the parish of St Mary to New Iberia, in order that there should 
be no disappointment in effecting a through communication with Texas, 
should the "Texas and New Orleans Railroad Company'' push forward their 
work to that place, and this we were assured would be done in a very 
short time. For details of the execution of this resolution of the Board 
reference is made to Report of Chief Engineer, herewith submitted. 

There being much apprehension as to the rights and obligatiems of this 
Company, it is well to state that the line of this road is fixed by the char- 
ter, and that is from Algiers to Berwick's Bay, thence to New Iberia, 
Vernr'llionville and Opelousas, and thence to the' Sabine River. AH our 
operations have been on this line. However desirable it may be to have a 
branch running west from New Iberia, to connect at the Sabine with the 
"■ Texas and New Orleans Road," there is no right nor obligation on the part 
of this Company to construct the same. In 1859, on erroneous informa- 
tion given to the Legislature of our intention to deviate from the line given 
in the charter and to build this branch, a bill was introduced and passed 
one branch of the General Assembly, restraining the Company from collect- 
ing the taxes due it in the parish of St. Landry, which bill was dropped 
on a showing of no foundation whatever for the charge. In the same 
year, by act approved 17th March, a charter to build this branch was 
granted to the " Texas and New Orleans Railroad Company," and they 
term it the " Louisiana Division" of their road. 

Late events — the interruption of our sea communication with Texas, 
and the difficulties of the land route — have now made evident to all the 
vast importance of the continuation and completion of the Opelousas Rail- 
road ; and it is ho'ped that, in the present dearth of personal securities, 
heretofore obtainable at high rates of interest, capitalists will now come 
forward and invest in the bonds of this Company, which are so well se- 
cured, and the interest on which has been and will continue to be punctu- 
ally paid. 

During the past year we have extended the graduation from Berwick to 
New Iberia, and thence to Bayou Vermillion, a distance of over sixty miles. 



Contracts were made for 4,000 tons of rails, of which 1,100 tofls ha've been* 
received, but the delivery of the remainder, delayed at first by the threaten- 
ing aspect of public affairs inducing much caution on the part of contractors^ 
has been entirely prevented by the war, and this is is our present position 
in regard to construction. For the future, our hope and expectation are 
that the State will, as authorized by the late Convention, pay in bonds the 
remainder of its subscription as fast as we prepare the roadway for the 
rails. It is very desirable that this work should soon be done, so that on 
a return of peace, the iron may be at once procured and the road, in its 
whole extent, be put in immediate operation for the immense business sure 
to follow its completion to the Sabine. 

There would then be an active demand for the lands on the line, amount- 
ing to some 700,000 acres, and valued at about $3,500,000, exceeding the 
whole paid up capital of the Company. For this reason it will be greatly to the 
advantage of the State to pay the balance of its subscription, becoming in 
that case one-third owner of the stock instead of one-fifth, as at present, and 
realizing that much larger share of the land donation. This is so clearly 
shown in a statement made to the Convention by our Chief Engineer, that, 
a copy is appended to this Report. 

With the additional capital realized by the payment of the balance of 
the State subscription, the sales of our bonds and lands, and the collection 
of past due subscriptions, the Company would have, on a return of peace 
ample means for building and equipping the whole road to the Sabine, 
paying (iff the floating debt, and with, probab^, a large surplus. 

The work done the past year, without effecting sales either of lands or 
bonds, has, of course, added considerably to the amount of our bills pay- 
able, for in no other way than by borrowing on pledges of the bonds could 
it have been carried on. We report renewals of loans, thus far, on fair 
terms, and punctual payments, at maturity, of all our other liabilities, in- 
cluding monthly deposits in the Louisiana State Bank for the interest on 
our bonds. 

The track and the rolling stock are in excellent condition thronp-hout 
requiring little or no extra outlay this year, and the earnings of the 
Company, seriously affected since the commencement of the war, are now- 
improving, and, for the times, are very satisfactory. 

I am, sir, with great respect, 

Your most obedient servant, 

WILLIAM G. HEWES, 

President. 



8 



THE CONVENTION AND OUR RAILROADS. 



An ordinance is before the Convention, which has for its object to era- 
power the State Legislature to authorize the issue of State bonds at the 
rate of $6000 per mile for each mile of graded roadway ready for the track, 
on which the track is not laid, in behalf of those roads only in which the 
State is now a stockholder ; provided, however, that no more than the 
unpaid balances of her present stibscrijJtion to the capital stock of said roads 
shall be thus paid by the State., The object of this ordinance seems to be 
the suspension — in behalf of the three railroads now in progress, in which 
the State is now a stockholder, viz : the Vicksburg, Shreveport and 
Texas Railroad, the Grosse Tete Railroad, and the Opelousas Railroad — 
of a constitutional provision, which prohibits the payment of the State's 
subscription, except in proportion to the total amount of capital stock of 
each company paid in by all other parties. 

The capital stock of the New Orleans, Opelousas and Great Western 
Railroad Company was fixed at $0,000,000, and the State's subscription 
of ono-fifth is $1,200,000, or 48,000 shares of $25 each. On this the State 
has issued to date §650,000 in bonds, equal to 26,000 shares ; leaving 
$550,000, or 22,000 shares unpaid. 

Since the State subscribed to the stock of this company, the Company 
have received from the late United States a grant of land amounting 
to about 700,000 acres. It is clear that if the road can be built for less 
than the six millions of stock, the sales of land furnishing the means 
instead of stock subscriptions, the road, when finished, will be much more 
valuable to the stockholders. If, therefore, this Company obtain money on 
bonds to build their road, and afterwards pay off the bonds by the proceeds 
of their hind sales, as will be done, then the road will be unencumbered, 
and represented by only three and a half to four mil Ions of stock in place 
of six millions. Would it not be wiser to aid the Company by paying up 
the State subscription in full, as the city of New Orleans did with her 
$1,500,000 subscription, than to compel the Company to issue $0,000,000 
of stock and then- pay up, as the State would have to do by existing laws? 
In the one case the $1,200,000 subscribed by the State would give her the 
ownership of one third of the road and its earnings, when completed, which, 
in the other, the same amount would give her but one-fifth. 

On the first one hundred and twenty-five miles of their line this Com- 
pany have but a limited quantity of land, the largest portion lying beyond 



9 

Opelousas. Oq reaching 1 Opelousas the sales of land will ensure the rapid 
extension and completion of the road to the Sahine River.or eastern bound- 
ary of Texas. The object now is toreach Opelousas at the earliest possible 
period, and the aid of the State, as provided for in the ordinance before 
the Convention, would accomplish this object. By July next about 
seventy-five miles of roadway will be graded and ready for the track, and 
the whole eighty-five miles, extending from Berwick's Bay to Opelousas, 
can be graded by October or November next. The balance of the State's 
subscription would furnish the rails for this eighty-five miles of road, and 
leave the Opelousas company in a condition to complete their road 
to Texas without embarrassment or loss of time. 

The State now owns 1,400,000 acres of land within the limits of 
the Opelousas Railroad grant, or twice the amount belonging to the Rail- 
way Company. Fully 1,000,000 acres of this is within the "six mile limits," 
and if sold at a minimum of $2 50 per acre, the price fixed on the same by 
the late United States, after the building of the railroad, would realize to 
the State $2,500,000 ; add the remaining 400,000 acres at $1 25, and the 
total is $3,000,000. Nearly the whole of this land is at present unsaleable, 
and will be so till the railroad is finished ; then it will sell rapidly. 

The extension of the Opelousas road ensures also the completion of the 
Louisiana division of the Texas and New Orleans Railroad, extendino- from 
Houston, Texas, to a junction with the Opelousas road. The Legislature 
have just passed a bill to aid the Texas and Now Orleans Railroad by a 
grant of land. Within the limits of that road our State owns about 
700,000 acres of land, and between both roads she owns 1,500,000 acres, 
or a total in all, within the grants of both roads and between both, 
of 3,600,000 acres, all of which would be made valuable and saleable by 
the completion of these railroads. As a great landed proprietor, then, the 
State should have the power, through her Legislature, to encourage 
the early completion of the Opelousas Railroad, if she deems it wise to give 
this encouragement. The ordinance, as I understand it, only empowers 
the Legislature to act. 

Is it not sound State policy to encourage the settlement and develop- 
m mt of the sparseley settled portions of the parishes of Calcasieu, Rapides, 
St. Landry, and Vermillion, and thus to diminish the ratio of taxation by 
distributing the burthen among a greater number ? Do not all the other 
States foster and aid their railways ? The wisdom of so doing is fully 
exemplified in the case of Georgia. 

Tbje Opelousas Railroad will be 258 miles in length, and will have con- 
nection with the Red River valley, South-western Louisiana, Northern and 
North-western Texas, and all So >thern and Middle Texas. With its small 
capital of three and a half to four millions, it must pay heavy dividends. 
The State, by completing her subscription, will make her stock a profitable 

2 G N R 



investment, and secure what she Las already paid against the possibility of 
loss, besides developing her territory and making her 3,600,000 acres of 
land saleable. 

Tn a military point of view this road is a necessity, for without it Texas 
might as well be at the Rocky Mountains, if troops have to march 500 
miles overland in case of war. The rapid concentration of troops, at any 
point in the Confederate States, is of the greatest importance. 

Commercially, this railway connection with Texas is a necessity to 
Xew Orleans and to Louisiana, if we are to maintain New Orleans as the 
great center of trade of the Southwest — the exporting and importing depot 
of the Southern States. 

Why should not the State, like the cit}' of New Orleans, pay up 
her subscription in full, in view of the immense importance, at this 
juncture, of the immediate completion of the railway connection with 
Texas? View the question in any light whatever, and the State will be 
vastly benefitted, without the possibility of losing in any way. In any 
event, the Convention would simply authorize the Legislature to do 
a certain thing, nothing more. Our great railroads are no longer an 
experiment : their standing is well known, their importance generally ap- 
preciated. B. 



11 



ENGINEER'S REPORT. 



Engineer's Office N. 0., 0. and G. W. R. R., Co. | 
Brasliear, La., November 8, 1861. j 

Wm. G-. Hewes, Esq., President : 

Dear Sir — As requested by you, I submit a report upon the condition of 
the works on construction of new road, beyond Berwick's Bay, at the time 
when the progress of our people's war for national independence interrupted 
further operations. 

Commencing on the west side of Berwick's Bay, the clearing and the 
roadway graduation thence are completed, with the slight exceptions speci- 
fied below, continuously for sixty-three miles, or to a point in the parish of 
Lafayette, north of the Bayou Vermillion and about one mile this side of 
Vermillionville. On this portion of our line the road crossings have all 
been constructed, and many of them planked. Many of the cattle-pits are 
in at the line fences. Preparations had been made to build culverts, and 
abutments of brick masonry at nearly all of the openings left for drainage 
along the line, and some of these were completed before the work was 
stopped. 

Ample height and flat slopes have been given to all of the embankments, 
and the ditches generally are wide, deep and continuous, affording thorough 
drainage. Suitable openings have been left, where needed, for the cross 
drainage of the adjacent country, and of the plantations along the line, but 
no important bridges are required on this part of our line except at the 
Bayou Vermillion. This bridge is designed to be constructed of iron, and its 
total length will be 235 feet, divided into two fixed portions — one at each 
end — of 40 feet clear span each, and a revolving draw, with two clear open- 
ings of 60 feet each, in the midcle, supported upon a pier of brick-masonry. 
The abutments for this bridge are, in part, constructed; each having been 
carried up several feet. 

The embankment across the cypress swamps and sea-marsh, near Ber- 
wick's Bay, done by Contractor Knox with dredging machinery, was com- 
pleted in the most substantial and satisfactory manner, in the month of Feb- 
ruary last. The width of the swamps and marsh thus embanked is near 
three miles, and the embankment, after having been completed nine months 
is firm, solid, and equal to any other on the line. This work cost our Com- 
pany about $37,500, which is considerably less than half of what would 



12 

necessarily have been expended, had the plan of piling and filling in with 
earth, hauled in cars, been adopted, as was at first contemplated. This mode 
of constructing a railway embankment oyer our low cypress swamps and 
boggv marshes, subject to tidal overflow, was an untried experiment, involv- 
ing — as was thought by many — a groat risk of failure, in consequence of the 
difficult) of keeping the material thrown up by the dredging machine in 
place, while yet soft and wet, or preventing it from sliding back into the 
dredo-ins; machine canal. In a few instances "slides" did occur, but all such 
difficulties were surmounted, and the final result is a roadway as good, if not 
much better, than any other across any of the numerous swamps and marshy 
prairies on our constructed line of railway, at a cost near $50,000 less than 
the plan of piling and filling in would have required. 

Two substantial pile bridges have been completed in the marshy prairie, 
across the Bayou Black and the dredging machine canal, and cross-ties 
placed thereon ready for the rails. 

The only work j*et to be done on the sixty-three miles, extending from 
Berwick's Bay to a point near Vcrmillionville, before the track or the 
lines of rails are laid down, comprises less than half a mile of surface grad- 
uation, on high land, at Mrs. Mead's place on the Bayou Teche — the em- 
banking of one and a half miles of swamp— where the ground has been 
cleared and drained off" for same — just east of the Bayou Sale highlands, 
the finishing off of a portion of the high embankment on the north side of 
Vermillion valley, and the construction of the balance of the cattle-pits at 
the line fences, of the culverts, small bridges, etc. 

The track-laying can be commenced at any time, and no delay need occur 
at any point in continuing it, except perhaps at the Sale* swamp, and there 
not much, if any, time would be lost. The cattle-pits, bridges, etc., would 
be constructed in advance of the track, as that progressed, as is customary. 
The Company has on band, on the west side of Berwick's Bay, about 
11,500 cross-ties, or cross-sleepers : most of these are sawed, but part are 
hewed; all are of sound selected cypress. These cross ties are 6 inches 
thick, by from 10 to 12 inches face, on both sides, and 11 feet long. 

The work done beyond Berwick's Bay is of the best and most substantial 
character in every respect, and such as fully meets the requirements of a 
first-class railway. The embankments are high, with very flat slopes, the 
ditches wide, deep and continuous, to secure perfect drainage, — the curres 
few in number and very light, — the grades very easy, nearly level, and the 
whole line so constructed as not to be exposed, in any manner, to interrup- 
tion, when finished and in operation, by rain storms, however protracted. 

With such a roadbed, with rails of good height, well fished and laid 
upon long and heavy cross-ties, we may confidently anticipate the economical 
maintenance of a smooth and firm track for the rolling stock, and the 
transaction of the heaviest business at the least possible cost; the main- 



13 

tenance of a smooth and firm track at the least cost, being the basis of rail- 
way economy. 

From Vermillionville to Opelousas the distance, by our line, is 22 miles, 
most of it over the high and level prairies of that region. This portion of 
the road could be built rapidly and cheaply. No swamps have to be en- 
countered here, in fact, none from Vermillionville to the Sabine River. Be- 
tween Vermillionville and Opelousas there are four stream* — the Carron- 
Cro, Bourbeau, Callahan and Lesson — with their valleys to cross ; each of 
these will need a bridge of about 100 feet span. 

From Opelousas to Pine Prairie, where the Branch to Alexandria, on Bed 
Biver, will diverge, the distance is 25 miles ; the whole being a high and 
very level prairie country, with here and there a patch of woods. No 
streams of any consequence occur on this part of our line. 

From Pine Prairie to the Sabine River is 68 miles, nearly all of it 
being a piney woods region. Total distance from Berwick's Bay to the Sa- 
bine Biver 178 miles, of which 115 miles have yet to be graded. 

The Company's lands are now being examined, described and classified 
with a view of fixiog the prices of each tract to be sold, according to its 
character, value and locality. A large proportion of these lands, particularly 
those between Berwick's Bay and Opelousas, are valuable, and well adapted 
for sugar cane, cotton, corn, etc. Were peace restored, our country's inde- 
pendence achieved and our road completed to Vermillionville, Opelousas, or 
to the Sabine, these lands would sell rapidly at remunerative prices, and 
thus contribute largely towards the cost of construction. 

Very respectfully, yours, 

G. W B. BAILEY, 
Chief Engineer and Land Agent. 



