LOS ANGELES HERALD SUNDAY SUPPLEMENT 



The Mortification of the Flesh 



r - - .ATHAN FOSTER and hia life-long friend j 
I and neighbor, Silas Bollender. «at to-< 
^ -4 gpther aide by aide upon the line fence 
| that’Separated their respective domains 
They were both whittling away indue -1 
•triously, and there had been a long si-1 
lence between them. Nathan broke- it, aaying, 
" ’Peart to me like I've had oncommon good luck 
thia year.” 

Silaa paused and carefully scrutinized the stick 
he was whittling into nothing at all, and then 
resumed operations on it before he returned: 
“Well, you have had good luck, there a in t no 
denyin’ that. It 'pears as though you vc been 
ce-specially blest." 

“ An * I know I ain’t done nothin to deser\e 

"No, of course not. Don’t take no credit to 
yorcself, Nathan. We don't none of us deserve 
our blessin’s, however we may feel about our 
crosses; wo kin be purty shore o’ that. 

"Now look," Nathan went on; “my pertater 
vines was like little trees, an’ nary a bug on cm. 

"An’ you had as good a crop o’ com a a 1 ve 
ever seen raised in this part o’ Montgomery 
county." ,. 

"Yes, an’ I sold it, too, Jest before that big 
drop In the price." 

"After givin’ away all the turnips you could, 
you had to feed ’em to the hogs. 

"My fruit trees jest had to be propped up, nn 
I’ve got enough perserves in mv cellar to laat 
two er three winters, even fakin’ into considera¬ 
tion the drain o’ church socials an’ o’ charity. ’ 

"Yore chickens air fat an’ sassy, not a sign o’ 
pip among ’em." 

"Look at them cows in the fur pasture. Did; 
you ever seen anything to beat ’em fur sleckncM. 

"Well, look at the pasture itself ; it’s most | 
enough to mpke human bein’s envy the critters. 
You didn’t have a drop o’ rain on you while you 
was gettin’ yore hay in, did you?" 

"Not a drop." 

"An’ I had a whole lot ruined jest as I was 
about to rick it." 

Bo, alternately, they went on enumerating Na¬ 
than's blessings, until it seemed that there was 
nothing left for him to desire. 

"Silas," he said, solemnly, "rich luck as I’ u 
a-havin’ is achilly skeery; it don’t seem right." 

Silas had a droll humor of his own, and his 
eyes twinkled as he said: “No, it don t seem 
right fur a religious man like you, Nathan. Ef 
you was a hard an’ graspin’ sinner it Vd be 
jest what a body'd ’spect. Yon could understand 
it then; the Lord 'u’d jest be makin’ you top- 
heavy, bo’s yore fall ’u’d be the greater." 

"I do’ know but what that’s it anyhow. Mebbe 
I’m a-gittin’ puffed up over my goods without ex¬ 
actly knowin’ it." 

"Mebbe so, mebbe so. Them kind o’ feelin’s 
is mighty sneaky cornin' on a body. O’ course, 

I ai. i seen no signs of it yit in you; but *t 
’pears to me you’ll have to mortify yore flesh yit 
to keep from bein’ purse-proud." 

"Mortify the flesh,’’ repeated Nathan seriously. 

"O’ course, you can’t put peas in yore shoes er 
git any of yore friends to lash you, so you’ll have 
to find tome other way o’ mortifyin’ yore flesh. 
Well, fur my part, I don’t need to look fur none, 
fur I never had too many blessin’s in my life, 
less’n you’d want to put the children under that 
head.” 

Silas shat np his jack-knife with a snap and, 
laughing, slid down on his side of the fence. In 
serious silence Nathan Foster watched him go 
stumping np t,ie P ath towards bis house. "Silas 
seems to take everything so light m this world,” 
he breathed half aloud. “I wonder how he can 
do it.” 

With Nathan, now, if was just the other way. 
Throughout his eight-and-forty years he had taken 


BY PAUL LAURENCE DUNBAR—COPYRIGHT BY J. B. LIPPINCOTT CO 


every fact of life with ponderous seriousness. En¬ 
tirely devoid of humor, he was a firm believer in 
signs, omens, tokens and judgments. Though the 
two men had grown up together and been friends 
from a boyhood spent upon their fathers’ adjoin¬ 
ing farms, their lives had been two very different 
stories. Silas, looking on everything cheerily, had 
married early and was the father of a houseful of 
children. His wife ruled him with a rod of iron, 
but he accepted her domination quite as n matter 
of course and went merrily on his way. He had | 
never been a very successful man, but lie had 
managed to hold the old homestead and feed and 
clothe his family. This seemed entirely to sat¬ 
isfy him. 

On the other hand, to Nathan marriage had I 
always seemed an undertaking fraught with so j 
much danger that he had feared to embark upon 
it, and although in his younger days his heart had | 
often burned within him when he contemplated 
some charming damsel, these heart-burnings had , 
gone unknown to anyone hut himself until some-1 
one else had led the girl to the altar. So he was [ 
set down as not a marrying man. He was essen¬ 
tially a cautious man, and through caution and 
industry his means had grown until from being 
well-to-do the people of Montgomery coun¬ 
ty spoke of him as a rich old bachelor. He was 
a religious man, and with the vision of Dives in 
his mind his wealth oppressed and frightened nim 
He gave to his church and gave freely. But. he 
had the instinct for charity without the faculty 
for it. And he was often held back from good 
deeds by a modesty which told him that his gifts 
would be looked upon as "Alms to be Been of 
men." 

As usual, he had taken his friend’s banterir.g 
word* in hsrd earnest and was turning them over 
in hia mind. Whan the bell rang, calling him in 
to supper, ho flung the stick which he had been 
whittling into the middle of the potato pAtch 
ana stood watching abstractedly where it fell, j 
Then, as if talking to it, he murmured, "Morti -1 
fiention of the flesh,” and started moving slowly | 
to the kitchen. 

The next morning, when Nathan and Silas met 
to compare notes, the former began, "I been 
thinking over what you said last night, Silas, 
about me mortifying my flesh, and it seems to me 
like n good idee." 

Silas looked at him quizzically from beneath 
bent brows, but Nathan went on, "I wrasseled in : 
prayer last night, and it was shown to me that it 
wa’n't no raore'n right fur me to make some kind 
o’ sacrifice fur the mercies that’s been bestowed j 
upon me." 

"Well, I do’ know, Nathan; burnt offerings air j 
a little out now." 

“I don’t mean nothin’ like that; I mean some 
sacrifice of myself; some—” 

His sentence was broken in upon by a shrill voice 
that called from Silas Bollender’s kitchen door: 
"Si. you’d better be gittin’ about yore work in- 
fltid o’ standin’ over there a-gasain’ ali the morn- 
in’. I'm shore I don’t have no time to stand 
around." 

* All right, Mollie,” he called hack to nig wife, 
and then, turning to Nathan, he said, "Speabin’ 
of mortifyin’ the flesh an’ making a sacrifice of 
yorcself, why don’t you git married?" 

Nathan started. 

‘Then, you see,” Silas continued, "you’d he 
shore to accomplish both. Fur pure mortification 
of the flesh, I don’t know of nothin’ more thor-1 
ough-goin’ er effectiver than a wife. Also the is j 
a vexation of the sperrit. Look at me an’ Mia’! 
Bollender, fur instance. Do you think I need a 
hair shirt when I think I’m giftin’ over fed? No. 
Mis’ Bollender keeps me with a meek an' subdued 
sperrit. You raaly ought to marry, Nathan." 

"Do you think 60 ?” 

"It looks like to me that that 'u’d be about as j 


good a sacrifice as you could make, an then it s 
sick a lastin’ one.” 

"I don’t hellcVe that you realize what you air 
a-sayin’, Silnl*. It’s n mighty desprit step that 
you’re advisin’ me to take.'' 

Again Mrs. Bollendct’s voice broke in, "Si, air 
you goin’ to git anything done this mornin*, er 
air you goin’ to stand there an 'hold up that fence 
fur the rest o’ the day?” 

’’Nathan,” said Silas, "kin yon stand here an’ 
listen to a voice an’ a speech like llmt an* then 
ask me of I realize the despritness of inirriage?" 

"It’s dosprit.” said Nathan, pensively, "but 
who’d you advise me to marry, Silas, ef I did— 
that is, ef I did make up my mind to marry’—an’ 
I don’ jest See nny other way." 

"Oh, I ain’t pickin' out wives fur nnvbod.v, but 
it seems tq me that you might be doin’ a good 
turn by tnarryin’ the Widdcr Young. The Lord 


strengthened by the reflection tint it was about 
Mrs. Young, not as a widow, but ns n wife and a 
means of grace, tint lie was concerned, and the 
memory of what Silas had said about wives in 
general had put him right with his conscience 
again. 

The widow was a lively, buxor.i woman who had 
seen forty busy summers pass. She had been one 
of the prettiest and most industrious girls of the 
village, and it had seemed that Nathan, when a 
young man, had serious intentions towards her. 
But his extreme caution had got the better of 
his inclination, and she had been retired to that 
limbo where he kept all his secret heart-burn¬ 
ings. She had married a nc’cr-do-wcel, and until 
the day of hip death, leaving her with two chil¬ 
dren on her hands, Fhe had had nc’d cf all her 
thrift. .... 

Nathan thought of nil these things and a lively 



* 1 JLJT Tf1°UGM7 I'D DR°P iff.** /AID ftATttAn. 


’u’d have two special reasons fur blcssin' you 
then; fur you'd be mortifyin’ yore flesh an’ at 
the same time a-helpin’ the widdcr an’ orphans/’ 
Nathan turned his honest gray eyes upon his 
friend, but there was a guilty flush upon his sum 
burned cheek as he said, "That’s so." For the 
world, he couldn’t admit to Silas that he had been 
thinking hard of the Widow Young even before 
he had thought of mortifying his flesh with a wife. 
Now that he had an added excuse for keeping 
her in his mind, he was guiltily conscious of try¬ 
ing to cheat himself—of passing off a pleasure for 
a penance. But his wavering determination was 


satisfaction grew np in his mind. He thought of 
the good his money would do the struggling wom¬ 
an, of the brightness it would bring into her life. 
"Well, it’s good,” he murmured; ‘Til be killin’ 
two bird# with one stone." 

Once decided, it did not take him long to put 
his plans into execution. Blit he called Silas 
over to the fence that evening after he had 
dressed to pay a visit to the widow. 

"Well, Silas," he began, “I’ve determined to 
take the step you advised." 

"Humph, you made up yore mind quick, Na¬ 
than." 


Nathan bjushed. but said. "I do’ know ns it’s 
any use a waitin’; cf a thing's to be done, it 
ought to be done an’ got through with.” 

"I’ll have to nsk you, now, ef you realize what 
a despnt step you're u-takin'?" 

“I've thought it over prayerfully." 

"I don't want nothin’ that l said in lightness 
of mind to influence you. I do’ know as I take 
rich things ns serious as I ought.” 

"Well. 1 own up yon did start the idee in my 
head. but. I've thought it all over sence an’ made 
up my mind fur myself, an’ I ain’t to be turned 
now. What I want partic’Inr to know now is, 
whether it wouldn’t be best to tell Lizzie—T mean 
the widdcr—that I want her as a means of morti¬ 
fication.’' 

"Well, no. Nathan, I do’ know as I would do 
that jest yit; I don’t believe it ’u’d be best." 

"But cf she don’t know, wouldn’t it be obtain¬ 
in’ her under false pertenses ef she snid yes?" 

"Not exactly the waj- I look at it, fur you’ve 
got more motives fur marryin’ than one." 

"What! Explain yorcself, Silas, explain yore- 
self." 

“1 mean you want, to do her good as well as 
subdue yore own sperrit." 

"Oh, yes, that’s so." 

“Now, no woman wants to know at first that 
she's a vexation to a man’s sperrit. It sounds 
scriptural, hut it don’t sound nooptial. Now 
look at me an’ Mis’ Bollender. I never told her 
untell we’d been married more’n six months. Fact 
is, it never occurred to me before. But she 
didn't believe it then, an’ she won’t believe it tell 
this day. She admits that she’s my salvation, 
but not in that way." 

Silas chuckled, and his friend chewed a straw 
and thought long, finally he said: “Well, I’ll 
agree not to tell her right away, hut ef she con¬ 
sents, I muit tfll her a week er so after we’re 
married. It’ll ease my conscience. Ef I could 
tell her now, it ’u’d be a heap easier in gittin' 
'round to the question. I don’t know jest how 
to do it without.” 

"Oh, you won’t have no trouble in makin* her 
understand. Matrimony's a subjec’ that women 
air mighty keen on. They can see that a man’s 
poppin’ the question ef he only half tries. You’ll 
git through nil right." 

Somewhat strengthened, Nathan left his friend 
and sought the widow’s house. He found her 
stitching merrily away under the light of a coal- i 
oil lamp with a red shade. Even in his tropida -1 
tion he found secret satisfaction in the red glow 
that filled the room and glorified the widow’s 
brown hair. 

Ia, Nathan," said the widow when he was 
seated, "who’d V expected to see you up here? 
You’ve got to he sich a home body that no one 
don’t look to fice you outside o’ yore own field 
an' garden." 

"I jest thught I’d drop in," said Nathan. 

“Well, it’s precious kind o’ you, I’m shore. I 
was a-feelin’ kind o’ lonesome. The children go 
to bed with the chickens." 

For an instant there was a picture in his mind 
of just such another evening as this, with the 
children all in bed and the widow sitting across 
from him or even beside him in another room 
than this. His heart throbbed, but the picture 
vanished before his realization of the stem ne¬ 
cessity of paring something. 

“I jest thought I’d drop in,” he said. Then his 
face*rcddened as he remembered that he had said 
that before. But the widow was fully equal to 
the occasion. _, . 

"Well, it does remind me of old times to Fee 
you jest droppin’ in informal-like, this way. My, 
how time does fly!” 

“It is like old times, ain’t it? 

Here they found a common subject, and the 
talk went on more easily, aided by story and 
reminiscence. When Nathan began to take ac¬ 
count of the time, he found with alarm that two 
| hours had passed without his getting any nearer 
to his object. From then he attempted to talk 
of one thing while thinking of another and failed 


signally. The conversation wavered, recovered 
itself, wavered again, and then it fell flat. 

Nathan saw that hia time bad come. He sighed, 
cleared his throat, and began: “Widdcr, I been 
thinkin’ a good deal lately, an' I been talkin' 
Borne with a friend o’ mine.” Ho felt guiltily 
conscious of what that friend had counselled Jiim 
to keep hack. “T’vo been greatly prospered in 
my day; in fact, ‘rtfy cup runneth over.’" 

"You have been prospered, Nathan." 

“Scems's ef— seems's ef I'd ought to sheer it 
with somebody, don’t it?" 

"Well, Nathan, I do’ know nobody that’s more 
generous in givin’ to the pore than you air." 

"I don’t mean jest exactly that way; I mean— 
widder, you’re the morti—I mean the salvation of 
my soul. Could you—would you—er—do you 
think you’d kcer to sheer my blcssin’s with me¬ 
an’ add another one to ’em?” 

The Widow Young looked at him in astonish¬ 
ment; then, as she perceived his drift, the tears 
filled her eyes and she asked, "Do you mean it, 
Nathan?” 

"I wouldn't V spent so much labor on a joke, 
widder.” 

“No, it don’t seem like you would, Nathan. 
Well, it’s sudden, mighty sudden, but I can’t 
soy no.” 

"Fur these an’ all other blessin’s mnko us truly 
thankful, oh Lord, wc ask fur His name’s sake— 
Amen!" said Nathan, devoutly. And he sat an¬ 
other hour with the widow, making plans for the 
early marriage, on which he insisted. 

The marriage took place very soon after the 
brief wooing was done. But the widow had been 
settled in Nathan’s home over a month before he 
had even thought of telling her of the real mo¬ 
tive of his marriage, and every day from the 
time it occurred to him it grew harder for him 
to do. . ... , , 

The charm and comfort of married life had 
wrapped him about as with a mantle, and he v as 
at peace with the world. From this state his 
conscience pricked him awake, and on a night 
when he had been particularly troubled he sought 
his friend and counsellor with a clouded brow. 
They sat together in their accustomed place on 
the fence. 

“I’m bothered, Silas,” said Nathan. 

“What's the matter?" 

“Why, there’s several things. First off. I 
ain’t never told the widder.that she was a morti¬ 
fication, an’ next, she ain’t. I look around at 
that old house o’ mine that nin t been a home 
sence mother used to scour the hearth, an it 
makes me feel like singing fur joy. An’ I hen* 
them children playin’ around me-they re the 
finest children; that youngest one called me 
daddy vistiddy—well. T see them pilin’ around 
an’ my eyes air opened, an’ I see that the win¬ 
der's jest another blessin’ added to the rest. Tt 
looks to me like I had tried to cheat the Al¬ 
mighty." 

With a furtive glance in the direction of Ins 
house, Silas took out his pipe and filled it, then 
between whiffs he said: "Well, now. Nathan, 
I do’ know as you’ve got any cause to feci both¬ 
ered, You've done yore duty. Ef you’ve tried to 
mortify vorc flesh an’ it refused to mortify, why, 
that's all you could do, an' I believe the Lord’ll 
take the will fur the deed an’ credit you oc- 
cordin’ly." 

“Mebbe so, Silas, mebbe so; but I’ve got to do 
more o’ my duty. I’ve got to tell her." 

He slipped down from the fence. 

"Nathan,” called his crony, but Nathan hur¬ 
ried away as if afraid to trust time with his 
will. "That’s jest like him,” said Silas, "to go 
an’ spoil it all;” and he walked down his lleld- 
path grumbling to himself. 

When the new husband reached the house his 
courage almost failed him, but he rushed in ex¬ 
claiming, "Widdcr, I’ve got to tell you, you’re a 
mortification of the flesh an’ a vexation to the 
sperrit; long may you continuer fur the good of 
my soul." 

Then, his duty being done and his conscience 
quieted, he kissed her and took one of the chil- 


j dien on his knee. 


The 


BY ALBERT T AY SON TERHUNE. 

HU, BARRETT read the formal, type¬ 
written letter slowly, stupidly, un¬ 
comprehend ingly. He read it a sec¬ 
ond time and turned the sheet over 
to see if anything were written on the 


A\etarporpbosis of Phil B&rrett ^ 


p 


for a dime, but* leisurely and <o the New Am-! The managing editor gazed up in speechless hor- 
sterdam Hotel, where steak, coffee, and fruit i ror. 

cost one dollar and twenty-five cents, including] But Barrett did not wait for reproof. Step- 


hack. After which he read the letter yet again. 

Then he lay back in bed and gazed dully up 
at the low white ceiling. Through the open 
window of his tiny bachelor room on the tenth 
floor of the Oramerry poured in the never-ebb¬ 
ing morning hum of the hurrying city, roughly 
punctuated by the roar of the Third avenue ele¬ 
vated trains. 

The sound vaguely reminded Barrett that he 
was one of the infinite number of atoms which 
went to make up New York’s rushing workaday 
life, and that he was already behind time in 
rising. He looked down again at the letter and 
sank back on his rumpled pillow. 

The colored bellboy who received fifty 
rents a week for awkening Phil at seven A. M., 
for turning on his bath, and for bringing up his 
mail, had aroused him fifteen minutes ago. Bar¬ 
rett could hear the water running into the tub 
rn the adjoining room. The bath must be near¬ 
ly full. But what matter? 

Once again he raised the letter nnd road it 
slowly through—this time aloud and with fre¬ 
quent pauses: 

"Philip Barrett, Esq., 34 Gramercy Tark, New 
York City. 

"Dear Sir: We have the honor to inform you 
that your aunt, Mrs. Georgia Benton Graves, of 
thia city, died on the 18th inst., lcaviug proper¬ 
ty aggregating approximately to six hundred and 
fifty-eight thousand dollars (see inclosed state- 
ment). As no testament can be found, and ns 
you are the nearest of kin, this sum legally re¬ 
verts to you. Kindly honor us with your in¬ 
structions. We beg to subscribe ourselves,” etc. 
etc. 

"That means," sighed Barrett, in a vague ec¬ 
stasy of contentment, not unmixed with a sort 
of dazed wonder—"that means I'm rich, or else 
that I’m crazy. Good Lord! Rich! A thirty 
dollar-a-week newspaper reporter nnd worth 
six hundred and fifty-eight thousand dollars!" 

He repeated these last worda alowly, solemnly; 
then lay trying in vain to build, in their prop¬ 
er order, the countless and dazzling materials for 
sir castles which thronged his dizzy brain. 

Barrett was one of the twenty-four reporters 
who hunted down news for the New York Even¬ 
ing Planet. He had joined the ataff three yeara 
before, on leaving college. 8ince then his sal¬ 
ary had gradually risen from fifteen to thirty i 
dollars a week, while his tastes and disbursing ] 
ability had expanded at a far more rapid ratio. 
Moreover, there was a Girl. 

She was the sort of girl one married. 

But in New York one cannot marry on thirty 
dollars a week. And therein lay the chief thorn 
in Barrett’s path. , ... . 

At last he arose, bathed, dressed, and sallied 
forth to breakfast -not in his usual Mwabling 
haste, nor to the Third-Avenue creamery where 
three rolls and a cup of coffee may be bought 


the tip. 

What a pity the Girl was spending a month 
in the West! Still, he could write her all about 
it. And write he did—voluminously, hectically 
—before faring to the office. 

Six hundred and fifty-eight thousand dollars," 


ping from the low dais on which were the city 
and managing editors’ desks he walked down the J 
city room towards the outer hall. 

In the doorway he met Colonel Bladen, the 
owner of the paper, who was returning from 
his morning rouud of the various departments. | 
Face to face, in the narrow doorway, Phil 


he reflected as he turned his face towards News-1 Barrett aTU ] t hc proprietor of the New York 
paper Row. "That means about' about twenty- j E ven j n g Planet ehanced to meet. It was, nat- 
six thousand three hundred and twenty dollars , urallv, Barrett's place to step back, try to look 

humbly apologetic, and allow the exalted one 
to enter. 

This was hi^ first impulBP, but a brighter idea 
occurred to him. lie noted that he was a trifle 
nearer the threshold than was his vis-a-vis; so, 
hat on head, cigar in mouth, he pressed on, forc¬ 
ing the proprietor to step hack. As he passed 
by, brushing shoulders with that outraged dig¬ 
nitary, Barrett, without removing hat or cigar, 
nodded condescendingly and continued on his way. 

“Those three interviews alone were worth the 
price of admission," ho murmured gleefully as 
he honrded ail elevator and descended towards 
the cashier's office. 

An idea had shaped itself in the hoy’s brain. 
Whenever any reporter on the Evening Planet 
receives a raise of salary it is the unwritten law 
of the office that he shall "set up” drinkB for 
the rest of the staff in the grimy little cafe di- 
I rectlv opposite the Planet Building. The drinks 


year at four per cent. We’ll marry next 
month. A year in Europe, nnd then I’ll write 
that book." 

Barrett was due at the office promptly at 
eight A. M. At nine-thirty he strolled into the 
big. bare, desk-strewn "City Room” of the 
Evening Planet, with its overbusy, shirtslecved 
workers and its whirr of ticker and telephone- 
bell. 

Barrett, inured to the scene, usually paid 
scant heed to it. To-day, however, he seemed 
to see it nil os with new eyes; to regard it as a 
phase of life whereof lie was no longer a part. 
For he intended, of course, to resign at once. 

"Barrft!" snapped a snarling voice from a 
large desk at the head of the room. Gray, the 
City Editor, had half risen in his chair and was 
angrily beckoning Phil. 


Now Gray was the one being on earth whom j n question are invariably either beer or whisky, 
Barrett utterly loathed and despised. The Olty J ummlly the latter. Barrett decided that nothing 
Editor was a man of tremendous energy, un-. short of champagne would meet the present ex- 
equaled ability in his particular line of work, igencics nnd serve as a proper form of farewell, 
and of a disposition, manner, and face that But he had only two dollars in his pocket, 
caused dielike at Bret eight en the part ef near-'Ha remembered, however, that he had ahont one 
^ everyone who el.aneed to trass his path. He hundred dollar- in lmnk. and he re-olved to get 
i> everyone wnu ’ * a check cashed for the whole sum m order to 

knew all this and was wont to dwenbe himself | defr>y thp bi „ B for 

wine and other projected 


sardonically ns 
iness 


“the best-hated man m the bus- 


Gray was a rigid martinet in regard to hours 
and work, and he had that morning selected 
Barrett for an especial assignment which should 
have been “covered” at eight-thirty. 

"This is a nice time of day for n man to be 
coming to work,” snarled Gray. "I’ve a good 
mind to suspend you. Well,” as Barrett made 
no reply, “what’ve you got to say?” 

Force of habit sent a chill through the boy 
nnd drove an excuse of some sort to ins lips. 
But he recovered himself on the moment, choked 
back the excuse, and laughed in Gray’s face. 

"Don’t get excited,” Phil adjured sneermgly. 
“You can suspend me till you’re black in the 
face for all I care. If you expect me to join 
the crowd that cringes whenever you snarl and 
work vour ugly eyebrows like that” (giving a 
painfully faithful imitation of a certain unfor¬ 
tunate facial peculiarity of the City Editor’s), 
“vou’ll be disappointed. Got any theatre tick 
ets: No? Well; I can buy all I want." 


expenses of the day. What was one hundred 
dollars out of six hundred and fifty-eight thou¬ 
sand dollars? 

At the “pay window” opening into the cash¬ 
ier's caged-off room lie asked: 

"Can you cash my check for one hundred dol¬ 
lars?” 

The cashier, who had had experience with the 
decidedly eccentric financial methods and status 
of newspaper men, demurred. 

"Maybe you think I haven’t that much cash 
in bank?” suggested Barrett hotly. "Perhaps 
this may convince you,” and he tossed across 
the window shelf the letter he had that morn¬ 
ing received from the Denver lawyers. 

The cashier's face changed perceptibly as he 
read it, and Barrett’s good taste smote him at 
thought of the vulgar ostentation he had juBt 
displayed. 

As the cashier finished the note a man entered 
the caged room from the rear. It was the pro¬ 
prietor. The cashier retreated to where Colonel 


s: wo: wen; i can uuy mi i wc*..*. i , ■ . . , .— ,- . « , 

Turning on his heel before the dumbfounded Bladen had paused to glower at Barrett nnd 
—. Mn | v itnrrpM-. ■ trolled over to the! handed him the note. Cashier and proprietor 


Gray could reply. Barrett strolled over to the 1 handed 
Managing Editor's desk. ‘ 

"Say, Bennett.” he remarked, "you told me 
yesterday to write a special story" aobut the bi¬ 
cyclists that try to flirt with girls at night on 
the Boulevard. I had another engagement last 
night, so l didn’t write it. It was a fool as- 
iignment anyhow." ^ 


read it together, then talked a moment in whis¬ 
pers. 

At last Bladen came forward and stretched 
out his hand to Phil through the narrow window. 

"I congratulate you, Mr. Barrett,” he said 
pompously but cordially. "You are indeed for¬ 
tunate. Mr. Banks,”—to the cashier—"kindly 


cash Mr. Barrett’s check. Mr. Barrett, I hope 
this good fortune of yours will not deprive uh 
of your valuable services. After so busy a life 
idleness will hang heavy on your hands. It 
seems a pity, moreover, that so promising a 
career—” 

"I have about decided,” interrupted Phil, to 
give up this drudging and devote myself to reg¬ 
ular literary work. Nine hours a day for $30 
a week doesn’t strike me as an ideal life.” 

“But perhaps—well, I must talk to you of this 
later on. Perhaps I can formulate some sugges¬ 
tion that you might agree to. Arc you going up 
to the city room? Wait a moment and I will 
go with you." 

Thus it was that Gray, having recovered from 
the shock of his interview with Phil, and hav¬ 
ing marked down the latter for swift punish¬ 
ment, beheld with amaze the spectacle of the 
delinquent walking into the city room a few 
moments later talking on apparently-equal and 
even confidential terms with the proprietor him¬ 
self, the latter's hand resting in fatherly fash¬ 
ion on Barrett’s shoulder. 

An overpowering thirst, a throbbing headache, 
and a feverish restlessness gripped Phil Barrett 
next morning, even in his dreams, and dragged 
him to pain racked wakefulness 1 . The morning 
was cold and rainy, its damp chill adding to the 
bov’s general physical misery. 

ilis first waking thought wsr of his new 
found wealth; his second, a memory of yester¬ 
day’s episodes. 

It had seemed, at the time, n splendid thing 
to buy champagne for everybody in sight, to 
ignore Gray’s proffered hand, to be congratulated, 
to be applauded to the skies for his daring lan¬ 
guage towards the city editor, Bennett, and 
the proprietor; to feel the silent, earnest hand¬ 
grip of the friends he loved, to listen with con¬ 
temptuous amusement to requests for loans from 
men with whom he had never before exchanged 
fifty words. 

But. this morning the memory was not sweet. 
He felt that he hud boasted of his wealth, that 
he had presumed on its power in a way little 
short of cowardly, that he had drunk altogether 
too much, and that lie had, in short, behaved 
like a cad. He was glad he had "gotten back" 
at Gray, but none of his other exploits now 
struck him as particularly glorious. 

How disgusted She would be! 

A thunderous knock at the door crashed through 
his aching head, turning him sick with agony. 

"Come in!” he groaned. 

The Gramercy bell boy entered and w-riggled 
towards the bed. 

"Seven o’clock, suh. Hcah s you’ mail, sub. 
Will I tulin on de bath now?” 

"No,” answered Barrett, reaching out a trem¬ 
ulous hand for the mail, “don’t turn on the bath. 
I’m not going to get Op for an hour or so.” 

lie glanced through the few letters in search 
of one from the girl. But the first envelope 
that met his eye bore a Denver postmark nnd 
the b tain pud name of the law firm whose previous 
commuuication had so changed the face of life 
for him. 

"I ought to have written to them yesterday, 
he thought as he idly ripped open the envelope; 
"I’ll do it to-day. Who would have thought 
prosperity could have made me such a blatant 
fool as I was yesterday l” 

He unfolded the stiff sheet of paper and read: 

"Philip Barrett, Esq. 


‘Dear Sir—We regret to be obliged to in¬ 
form you that since our letter to you of the 
24th inst. a will of the late Mrs. Georgia 
Benton Graves hns been found in the strong 
box formerly rented by her from the Aaron 
Burr Safe Deposit Company, of this city. 
This testament, which bears the date August 
32, 1896, bequeathes her entire real and per- 
sonal estate to the Martha Infayette Homo 
for Indigent Authors. Regretting that we 
should have,” etc., etc., “we beg to remain, 
etc., etc. 

Phil lay very still for a few minutes, then fie 
reached across to the chair on which his clothes 
lay. He sen relied the pocket s and laid on the 
coverlet a bill and some change. 

"One dollur and sixty-eight cents," he count¬ 
ed, “every cent I’ve got on earth. The one hun- 
tired dollars I'd saved towards marrying gone, 
and my job, too!” ... 

For an inBtant his lips worked convulsively. 
Then he broke into peal after peal of hoarse, 
hysterical laughter. The little room rooked with 
the sound, and the pitiful heap of coins rattled 
and jingled ns the throes of bis miserable mirth 
shook the bed. 

"Oh, what a genius I am!” ho groaned, pant¬ 
ing for breath as the paroxysm passed. “I insult 
the men who hold the power of financial life 
and death over me. I write a letter raising lying 
hopes in her heart. I blow all my savings on 
drinks. Then I throw over a good job just ns 
the dull season is coming on I There isn’t n 
paper in New York that will take on new men 
in summer. Oh, the meesly completeness of the 
thing!’’ 

Again unnatural laughter twisted and choked 
him. . , ,, 

A cold bath restored his nerves to a semblance 
of their proper form. Tw-o cupa of vilely-flavored 
Mack coffee in a Third avenue reatAurant fur¬ 
ther cleared the drink mists from his head. He 
boarded a downtown car. His mind was made 
up He had been a fool—a cad. And he would 
take his medicine like a man. He would humble 
himself by going to Gray nnd begging the city 
editor to give him back his job. He could al¬ 
ready feel in advance the,scathing lash of the 
martinet’s sarcasm. The chances were ten to 
one that Gray would conclude the tirade by a 
peremptory refusal to reinstate such a man ou 
his staff. But Phil felt he must take those 
chances. Tf not for his own sake, for the girl’s. 

The lad also knew that he must henceforth 
be the laughing .stock of Newspaper Row, and he 
turned cold at thought of seeing Colonel Bladen. 
Bladen would surely never forgive himself for 
unbending to a mere reporter; and, doubly surely, 
he would never forgive Phil. ■ 

"It’s my medicine, all right, muttered Bar- 
rett to himself ob he entered the city room, "and 
I’ll take it. But if it wasn’t for her—’ 

The several members of the ataff who had 
already arrived looked up at him, and as part 
of his self-punishment he forced himself to meet 
their eyes. The next moment he reflected with 
a cowardly feeling of relief that no one but him¬ 
self could possibly know of the sudden collapse 
of his fortunes. , .. 

With head thrown back, teeth 6ot. and face 
dead white, Barrett walked towards the city edi¬ 
tor’s desk. . ... . , 

"If it were only some easy fate like a guillotine 
or an electric chair!” he thought despairingly. 
Gray looked up sharply aa the younger man 


drew near. The city editor's nervous eyebrows 
rose and fell convulsively, as was their custom 
when he was perturbed. 

Barrett bravely opened his mouth to speak, 
Gray cut in ahead of him in a labored modula¬ 
tion of the rasping, snarling voice Phil so 
hated— 

"Mr. Barrett,” said fhe city editor, "Colonel 
Bladen left word with me to ask you to step 
into his office as soon as you should arrive this 
morning.” 

“I suppose he’s heard about my smashup nnd 
wants a chance at me before Gray can fire mo,” 
surmised Phil as with a curt nod he turned 
away from the city desk. "In any case. Gray 
hasn't heard. If he had, he’d never have tried 
to speak to me in that almost human tone. He’d 
have fallen on me and torn me asunder. Now 
for the real execution!" 

So saying he opened the door of Colonel Blad¬ 
en's private office and braced himself for the 
ordeal. 

The great man rose, grasped Barrett’s hand 
impressively, and motioned him to a seat. 

"Hasn’t heard yet,” was Phil’s mental com¬ 
ment. "What can lie want of me then?" 

Mr. Barrett,” began the proprietor heavily, 
"when you were in the first flush of your hap¬ 
piness I did not press the matter of your re¬ 
maining with us. But now that you have had 
twenty-four hours to think it over, I trust you 
may see what an advantage-solely from an in¬ 
tellectual point of view, of course—it would 
he to so young a man to have steady employ¬ 
ment." 

“I agree with you," said Fhil from the very 
bottom of his heart, wonder replacing the dumb 
misery of his brain. 

“T have had my eye on your work for a long 
time," continued Bladen, "and I aLo hear high 
reports of it from Mr. Bennett. I should not. 
of course, suggest that a man in your new cir¬ 
cumstances bind himself to nine hours a day 
routine; but if you would care to become one 
of our special writers—congenial work, you 
know—" 

Barrett was dung some rapid thinking. Hu 
knew the prestige it would give the Evening 
Planet in certain quarters were it known that :i 
man of supposed wealth voluntarily chose to re¬ 
main on its staff; he had heard of Bladen’s al¬ 
most slavish fondess for the rich; he also realized 
that tho work of a man who is known to bo 
beyond the reach of need often commands bettor 
prices than does that of the avowedly needv 
scribbler. He began, too, to nnderstand fhat hia 
own work at thirty dollars a week might per¬ 
haps have been worth somtwhnt more. 

“You are right, Colonel,” said Phil at last: 
“some steady and congenial employment would 
save me from many of the temptations that be¬ 
set an idle rich man. If only I had some in¬ 
centive to stick to the work—a contract, for in¬ 
stance—” 

"By all means.” assented the proprietor do- 
lightedly. “How would a three-year contract 
suit you -say at seventy-five dollars a week? Of 
course, the salary is merely nominal. Is that—" 

“Yes,” said Phil slowly, wondering meanwhile 
when he would awake from this Arabian Nights 
dream. “I think that will suit. And now that 
I’m here—and while my good resolution lasts • 
suppose you have the contract drawn up nnd letj 
j me sign it before I can change my mind." 

(Ooprrixbt by J. B. Llpplncott Co.l 




