Google 


This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world’s books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 


Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non- commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 


About Google Book Search 


Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 


at jhttp : //books . qooqle . com/ 




<36623805880019 

<36623805880019 

Bayer. Staatsbibliothek 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



Digitized by v^ooQle 


POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


OF THE 

PICKWICK CLUB, 

CONTAINING A FAITHFUL RECORD OF THE 

PERAMBULATIONS, PERILS, TRAVELS, ADVENTURES 

AND 

SPORTING TRANSACTIONS 

OF THE CORRESPONDING MEMBERS. 


BY CHARLES DICKENS. 

YOL. I. 



* \ 

PARIS} 


* BAUDRY’S EUROPEAN LIBRARY, 

RUE DU COQ, NEAR THE LOUVRE. 


SOLD ALSO BY AMYOT, BUS DE LA PAIX; TRUCHY, BOULEVARD DES ITALIENS ; 
THEOPH1LB BARROIS, JUN., RUE RICHELIEU; L1BRA1RIE DES ETRANGERS, 
55 , RUB NEUVE SAINT- AUGUSTIN ; HEIDELOFF, RUE VIVIENNE ; 

AND BY ALL THE PRINCIPAL BOOKSELLERS ON THE CONTINENT. 


1838 . 


Digitized by 


Google 





Mr. SERGEANT TALFOURD, M. P., etc., etc. 

I 


My Dear Sir, 

If I had not enjoyed the happiness of your private friendship, 
I should still have dedicated this work to you, as a slight and 
most inadequate acknowledgment of the inestimable services you 
are rendering to the literature of your country, and of the lasting 
benefits you will confer upon the authors of this and succeeding 
generations, by securing to them and their descendants a per- 
manent interest in the copyright of their works. 

Many a fevered head and palsied hand will gather new vigour 
in the hour of sickness and distress from your excellent exertions ; 
many a widowed mother and orphan child, who would otherwise 
reap nothing from the fame of departed genius but its too fre- 
quent legacy of poverty and suffering, will bear, in their altered 
condition, higher testimony to the value of your labours than the 
most lavish encomiums from lip or pen could ever afford. 

Beside such tributes, any avowal of feeling from me, on the 
question to which you have devoted the combined advantages of 
your eloquence, character, and genius, would be powerless in- 
deed. Nevertheless, in thus publicly expressing my deep and 
grateful sense of your efforts in behalf of English literature, and 
of those who devote themselves to the most precarious of all 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



DEDICATION. 


Vj 

pursuits, I do but imperfect justice to my own strong feelings 
on the subject, if I do no service to you. 

These few sentences would have comprised all I should have 
had to say, if I had only known you in your public character. On 
the score of private feeling, let me add one word more. 

Accept the dedication of this book , my dear Sir, as a mark of 
my warmest regard and esteem — as a memorial of the most 
gratifying friendship I have ever contracted, and^of some of the 
pleasantest hours I have ever spent — as a token of my fervent 
admiration of every fine quality of your head and heart — as an 
assurance of the truth and sincerity with which I shall ever be, 

My dear Sir, 

Most faithfully and sincerely yours, 

CHARLES DICKENS. 


48 , Doughty Street, 

September 27 , 1837 . 


Digitiz . by 


C >ogle 



PREFACE. 


The author’s object in this work, was to place before the 
reader a constant succession of characters and incidents; to paint 
them in as vivid colours as he could command; and to render 
them , at the same time , life-like and amusing. 

Deferring to the judgment of others in the outset of the un- 
dertaking, he adopted the machinery of the club, which was 
suggested as that best adapted to his purpose : but, finding that 
it tended rather to his embarrassment than otherwise, he gra- 
dually abandoned it, considering it a matter of very little impor- 
tance to the work whether strictly epic justice were awarded to 
the club, or not. 

The publication of the book in monthly numbers, containing 
only thirty-two pages in each , rendered it an object of paramount 
importance (hat, while the different incidents were linked together 
by a chain of interest strong enough to prevent, their appearing 
unconnected or’impossible, the general design should be so simple 
as to sustain no injury from this detached and desultory form of 
publication, extending over no fewer than twenty months. In 
short, it was necessary — or it appeared so to the author — that 
every number should be, to a certain extent, complete in itself, 
and yet that the whole twenty numbers, when collected, should 
form one tolerably harmonious whole, each leading to the other 
by a gentle and not unnatural progress of adventure. 

It is obvious that in a work published with a view to such 
considerations , no artfully interwoven or ingeniously complicated 
plot can with reason be expected. The author ventures to express 
a hope that he has successfully surmounted the difficulties of his 
undertaking. And if it be objected to the Pickwick Papers, that 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



PREFACE. 


viij 

they are a mere series of adventures , in which the scenes are 
ever changing, and the characters come and go like the men and 
women we encounter in the real world, he can only content him- 
self with the reflection, that they claim to be nothing else, and 
that the same objection has been made to the works of some of 
the greatest novelists in the English language. 

The following pages have been written from time to time, al- 
most as the periodical occasion arose. Having been written for 
the most part in the society of a very dear young friend who is 
now ho more, they are connected in the author’s mind at once 
with the happiest period of his life, and with its saddest and 
most severe affliction. < 

The almost unexampled kindness and favour with which these 
Papers have been received by the public , will be a never-failing 
source of gratifying and pleasant recollection while their author 
lives. He trusts that, throughout this book, no incident or expres- 
sion occurs which could call a blush into the most delicate cheek , 
or wound the feelings of the most sensitive person. If any of his 
imperfect descriptions, while they afford amusement in the per- 
usal, should induce only one reader to think better of his fellow 
men, and to look upon the brighter and more kindly side of 
human nature, he would indeed be proud an4 happy to have led 
to such a result.- 


Digitized by 


Google 




POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

* 

OF 


THE PICKWICK CLUB. 


CHAPTER I. 

THE PIC&WICKJANS. 

The .first ray of light which illumines the gloom , and converts 
into a dazzling brilliancy that obscurity in which the earlier his- 
tory of the public career of the immortal Pickwick would appear 
to be involved, is derived from the perusal of the following entry 
in the Transactions of the Pickwick Club, which the editor of 
these papers feels the highest pleasure in laying before his read- - 
ers , as a proof of the careful attention , indefatigable assiduity, 
and nice discrimination , with which his search among the mul- 
tifarious documents confided to him has been conducted. 

“ May 12, 18i7. Joseph Smiggers, Esq.,, P. V. P. M. P. C.‘ 
presiding. The following resolutions unanimously agreed to. 

“ That this Association has heard read , with feelings of un- 
mingled satisfaction , and unqualified approval , the paper com- 
municated by Samuel Pickwick , Esq., G. C. M. P. C. a entitled 
“ Speculations on the Source of the Hampstead Ponds , with 
Some Observations on the Theory of Tittlebats;” and that this If 
Association does hereby return its warmest thanks to the said 
Samuel Pickwick , Esq., G. C. M. P. C. for the same. 

“ That while this Association is deeply sensible of the advan- 
tages which must accrue to the cause of science , from the pro- 
duction to which they have just adverted , no less than from the 
unwearied researches of Samuel Pickwick, Esq., G. C. M. P. C. 
in Hornsey, Highgate , Brixton , and Camberwell ; they cannot 
hut entertain a lively sense of the inestimable benefits which 
must inevitably result from carrying the speculations of that 
learned man into a wider field , from extending his travels, and 

1 Perpetual Vice President — Member Pickwick Club. —E d. 
a General Chairman— Member Pickwick Club, — Ed. 

I. 1 . 

Digitized by v 



POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


'2 

consequently enlarging his sphere of observation; to the advance- 
ment of knowledge , and the diffusion of learning. 

“ That with the view, just mentioned , this Association has 
taken into its serious consideration a proposal, emanating from 
the aforesaid Samuel Pickwick , Esq., G. C. M. P. C., and three 
other Pickwickians hereinafter named , for forming a new branch 
of United Pickwickians under the title of The Corresponding 
Society of the Pickwick Club. 

“ That the said proposal has received the sanction and ap- 
proval of this Association. 

‘ ‘ That the Corresponding Society of the Pickwick Club is there- 
fore hereby constituted ; and that Samuel Pickwick , Esq. G. C. 
M. P. C., Trafcy Tupman, Esq., M. P. C., Augustus Snodgrass, 
Esq., M. P. C., and Nathaniel Winkle, Esq., M. P. C., are here- 
by nominated and appointed members of the same : and that they 
be requested to forward , from time to time , authenticated ac- 
counts of their journeys and investigations ; of their observations 
of character and manners ; and of the whole of their adventures , 
together with all tales and papers , to which local scenery or asso- 
ciations may give rise , to the Pickwick Club stationed in London. 

“ That this Association cordially recognises the principle of 
every member of the Corresponding Society defraying his own 
travelling expenses , and that it sees no objection whatever to 
the members of the said Society pursuing their inquiries for any 
length of time they please, upon the same terms. 

“ That the members of the aforesaid Corresponding Society, 
be , and are hereby informed, that their proposal to pay the post- 
age of their letters , and the carriage of their parcels , has been 
deliberated upon , by this Association. That this Association 
considers such proposal worthy of the great minds from which 
it emanated ; and that it hereby signifies its perfect acquiescence 
therein.” 

A casual observer, adds the secretary, to whose notes we are 
indebted for the following account — a casual observer might pos- 
sibly have remarked nothing extraordinary in the bald head , and 
circular spectacles , which were intently turned towards his 
(the secretary’s) face, during the reading of the above resolu- 
tions. To those who knew that the gigantic brain of Pickwick 
was working beneath that forehead , and that the beaming eyes 
of Pickwick were twinkling behind those glasses , the sight was 
indeed an interesting one. There sat the man who had traced to 
their source the mighty ponds of Hampstead , and agitated the 
scientific world with his Theory of Tittlebats , as calm and un- 
moved as the deep waters of the one on a frosty day, or as a soli- 
tary specimen of the other, in the inmost recesses of an earthen 
jar. And how much more interesting did the spectacle become. 


Digitized by uooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 3 

when , starting into full life and animation , as a simultaneous call 
for “ Pickwick” burst from his followers , that illustrious man 
slowly mounted into the Windsor chair, on which, he had been 
previously seated , and addressed the club himself had founded. 
What a study for an artist did that ftxciting scene present! The 
eloquent Pickwick , with one hand gracefully concealed behind 
his coat tails , and the other waving in air to assist his glowing 
declamation : his elevated position revealing those tights and ( 
gaiters , which , had they clothed an ordinary man , might have 
passed without observation , but which , when Pickwick clothed 
them — if we may use the expression — inspired involuntary awe 
and respect ; surrounded by the men who had .volunteered to 
share the perils of his travels , and who were destined to partici- 
pate in the glories of his discoveries. On his right hand , sat ~ 
Mr. Tracy Tupman 5 the too susceptible Tupman , who to the * 
wisdom and experience of maturer years superadded the enthu- 
siasm and ardour of a boy, in the most interesting and pardon- 
able of human weaknesses — love. Time and feeding had ex- 
panded that once romantic form ; the black silk waistcoat had 
become more and more developed inch by inch had the gold 
watch-chain beneath it disappeared from within the range of 
Tupman’s vision ; and gradually had the capacious chin en- 
croached upon the borders of the white cravat , but the soul of 
Tupman had known no change — admiration of the fair sex was 
still its ruling passion. On the left of his great leader sat the poe- 
tic Snodgrass , and near him again the sporting Winkle , the 
former poetically enveloped in a mysterious blue cloak with a 
canine-skin collar, and the latter communicating additional lustre ' 
to a new green shooting coat, plaid neckerchief, and closely 1. 
fitted drafts. I 

Mr. Pickwick’s oration upon this occasion , together with the 
debate thereon , is entered on the Transactions of the Club. Both 
bear a strong affinity to the discussions of other celebrated 
bodies ; and , as it is always interesting to trace a resemblance 
between the proceedings of great men , we transfer the entry to 
these pages. 

“ Mr. Pickwick observed (says the secretary) that fame was 
dear to the heart of every man. Poetic fame was dear to the 
heart of his friend Snodgrass ; the fame of conquest was equally 
dear to his friend Tupman ; and the desire of earning fame, in 
the sports of the field, the air, and the water, was uppermost in 
the breast of his friend Winkle. He (Mr. Pickwick) would not 
deny, that he was influenced by human passions, and humane 
feelings, (cheqrs) — possibly by human weaknesses — (loud cries 
of “No”) 5 but this he would say, that if ever the fire of self- 
importance broke out in his bosom, the desire to benefit the hu- 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



4 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

man race in preference, effectually quenched it. The praise of 
mankind was his Swing.; philanthropy was his insurance office. 
(Vehement cheering.) He had felt some pride — he acknowledged 
it freely; and let his enemies make the most of it — he had felt 
some pride when he presented his Tittlebatian Theory to the 
world ; it might be celebrated or it might not. (A cry of “It 
is ,” and great cheering.) He would take the assertion of that 
honourable Pickwickian whose voice he had just. heard— it was 
celebrated ; but if the fame of that treatise were to extend to the 
farthest confines of the known world , the pride with which he 
should reflect on the authorship of that production , would be 
as nothing compared with the pride with w T hich he looked 
around him , on this ,/the proudest moment of his existence. 
(Cheers.) He was a humble individual. (No, no.) Still he could 
not but feel that they had selected him for a service of great 
honour, and of some danger. Travelling was in a troubled state, 
and the minds of coachmen were unsettled. Let them look 
abroad , and contemplate the scenes which were enacting around 
them. Stage coaches were upsetting in all directions, horses 
were bolting , boats were overturning , and boilers were burst- 
ing. (Cheers — a voice “ No.”) No! (Cheers.) Let that ho- 
nourable Pickwickian who cried “ No” so loudly, come forward 
and deny it , if he could. (Cheers.) Who was it that cried 
“ No?” (Enthusiastic cheering.) Was it some vain and disap- 
pointed man.— he would not say haberdasher — (loud cheers) 
— who, jealous of the praise which had been — perhaps un- 
deservedly — bestowed on his (Mr. Pickwick’s) researches, and 
smarting under the censure which had been heaped upon his 
own feeble attempts at rivalry, now took this vile and calum- 
nious mode of 

“ Mr. Blotton (of Aldgate) rose to order. Did the honour- 
able Pickwickian allude to him? (Cries of “Order,” “Chair,” 
“ Yes ,” “ No ,” “ Go on ” “ Leave off,” etc.) 

“ Mr. Pickwick would not put up to be put down by clamour. 
He had alluded to the honourable gentleman, (Great excite- 
ment. ) 

“Mr. Blotton would only say then , that he repelled the hon. 
gent-’s false and scurrilous accusation, with profound contempt. 
(Great cheering). The hon. gent, was a humbug. (Immense 
confusion , and loud cries of “ Chair” and “ Order.”) 

“ Mr. A. Snodgrass rose to order. He threw himself upon 
the chair. (Hear.) He wished to know, whether this disgrace- 
ful contest between two members of that club, should be allowed 
to continue. (Hear, hear.) « 

“ The Chairman was quite sure the hon. Pickwickian would 
withdraw the expression he had just made use of. 


Digitized by CjOOQle 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 5 

“ Mr. Blotton , with all possible respect for the chair, was 
quite sure he would not. 

“ The Chairman felt it his imperative duty to demand of the 
honourable gentleman, whether he had used the expression 
which had jiist escaped him , in a common sense. 

“ Mr. Blotton had no hesitation in saying , that he had not 
— he had used the word in its Pickwickian sense. (Hear, hear.) 
He was bound to acknowledge, that, personally, he entertained 
the highest regard and esteem for the honourable gentleman ; 
he had merely considered him a hurtibug in a Pickwickian point 
of view. ( Hear, hear.) 

“ Mr. Pickwick felt much gratified by the fair, candid, and 
full explanation of his honourable friend. He begged it to be at 
once understood, that his own observations had been merely 
intended to bear a Pickwickian construction. (Cheers.)” 

Here the entry terminates, as we have no doubt the debate 
did also , after arriving at such a highly satisfactory and intel- 
ligible point. We have no official statement of the facts, which 
the reader will find recorded in the next chapter, but they have 
been carefully collated from letters and other MS. authorities , 
so unquestionably genuine, as to justify their narration in a 
connected form, 


CHAPTER II. 

THE FIRST HAY’S JOURNEY , AND THE FIRST EVENING’S ADVENTURES ; WITH THEIR 
CONSEQUENCES. 

That punctual servant of all work , the sun , had just risen , 
and begun to strike a light on the looming of the thirteenth of 
May, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven, when 
Mr. Samuel Pickwick burst like another sun from his slumbers •, 
threw open his chamber window, and looked out upon the world 
beneath. Goswell-street was at his feet, Goswell-street was on 
his right hand — as far as the eye could reach , Goswell-street 
extended on his left ; and the opposite side of Goswell-street was 
over the way. “ Such ," thought Mr. Pickwick, “ are the nar- 
row views of those.philosophers who , content with examining 
the things that lie before them , look not to the truths which are 
hidden beyond. As well might I be content to gaze on Goswell- 
street for ever, without one effort to penetrate to the hidden 
countries which on every side surround it.” And having given 
vent to this beautiful reflection , Mr. Pickwick proceeded to put 
himself into his clothes 5 and his clothes into his portmanteau. 
Great men are seldom over scrupulous in the arrangement of 


Digitized by 


Google 



POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


6 

their attire-, the operation of shaving, dressing, and coffee-im- 
bibing was soon performed : and , in another hour , Mr. Pick- 
wick , with his portmanteau in his hand , his telescope in his 
great-coat pocket , and his note-book in his waistcoat, ready for 
the reception of any discoveries worthy of being noted down , 
had arrived at the coach stand in Saint Martin’s-le-Grand. 

“ Cab ! ” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Here you are, sir,” shouted a strange specimen of the human 
race, in a sackcloth coat, and apron of the same, who with a 
brass label and number round his neck , looked as if he were ca- 
talogued in some collection of rarities. This was the waterman. 
“ Here you are, sir. Now, then, fust cab! ” And the first cab 
having been fetched from the public house , where he had been 
smoking his first pipe , Mr. Pickwick and his portmanteau were 
thrown into the vehicle. 

“ Golden Cross ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Only a bob’s worth , Tommy,” — cried the driver, sulkily, 
for the information of his friend the waterman, as the cab 
drove off. 

, How old is that horse , my friend ? ” inquired Mr. Pickwick, 
rubbing his nose with the shilling he had reserved for the fare. 

“ Forty-two,” replied the driver, eyeing him askant. 

“What!” ejaculated Mr. Pickwick, laying his hand upon 
his note-book. The driver reiterated his former statement. 
Mr. Pickwick looked very hard at the man’s face, but his 
features were immoveable , so he noted down the fact forthwith. 

“ And how long do you keep him out at a time?” inquired 
Mr. Pickwick , searching for further information. 

“ Two or three weeks ,” replied the man. 

“Weeks!” said Mr. Pickwick in astonishment — and out 
came the note-book again. 

“ He lives at Pentonwil when he’s at home,” observed the 
driver, coolly, “ but we seldom takes him home , on account of 
his weakness.” 

“On account of his weakness;” reiterated the perplexed 
Mr. Pickwick. 

“ He always falls down , when he’s took out o’ the cab ,” con- 
tinued the driver, “ but when he’s in it, we bears him up werry 
tight, and takes him in werry short, so as he can’t werry well 
fall down , and we’ve got a pair o’ precious large wheels on ; so 
ven he does move , they run after him , and he must go on — he 
can’t help it.” f 

Mr. Pickwick entered every word of this statement in his 
note-book , with the view of communicating it to the club , as a 
singular instance of the tenacity of life in horses , under trying 
circumstances. The entry was scarcely completed when they 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 


7 

reached the Golden Cross. Down jumped the driver, and out got 
Mr. Pickwick, Mr. Tupman, Mr. Snodgrass , and Mr. Winkle, 
who had been anxiously waiting the arrival of their illustrious 
leader, crowded to welcome him. 

‘ ‘ Here’s your fare,” said Mr. Pickwick, holding out the shilling 
to the driver. 

What was the learned man’s astonishment , when that un- 
accountable person flung the money on the pavement , and re- 
quested in figurative terms to be allowed the pleasure of fighting 
him (Mr . Pickwick) for the amount ! 

“ You are mad,” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ Or drunk ,” said Mr. Winkle. 

“ Or both said Mr. Tupman. 

“ Come on ,” said the cab-driver, sparring away like clock- f 
work. “ Come on — all four on you.” 

“ Here’s a lark!” shouted half a dozen hackney coachmen. 

“ Go to vork , Sam ,” — and they crowded with great glee round 
the party. 

“ What’s the row, Sam?” inquired one gentleman in black 
calico sleeves. 

“ Row ! ” replied the cabman , “ what did he want my num- 
ber for?” 

“ I didn’t want your number,” said the astonished Mr. Pick- 
wick. 

“ What did you take it for, then ? ” inquired the cabman. 

“ I didn’t take it ,” said Mr. Pickwick , indignantly. 

“ Would any body believe,” continued the cab-driver, ap- 
pealing to the crowd, — “ would any body believe as an in- 
former ’ud go about in a man’s cab , not only taldn’ down his 
number, butev’ry word he says into the bargain? ”(A light flashed 
upon Mr. Pickwick — it was the note-book. ) 

“ Did he though? ” inquired another cabman. 

“ Yes, did be,” replied the first — “ and then after agger- 
awatin’ me to assault him ', gets three witnesses here to prove it. 
But I’ll give it him , if I’ve six months for it. Come on and the 
cabman dashed his hat upon the ground, with a reckless dis- 
regard of his own private property, and knocked Mr. Pickwick’s 
spectacles off, and followed up the attack with a blow on 
Mr. Pickwick’s nose , and another on Mr. Pickwick’s chest , and 
a third in Mr. Snodgrass’s eye , and a fourth , by way of variety, 
in Mr. Tupman’s waistcoat , and then danced into the road , and 
then back again to the pavement , and finally dashed the whole 
temporary supply of breath out of Mr. Winkle’s body; and all 
in half a dozen seconds. 

“ Where’s an officer?” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ Put ’em under the pump,” suggested a hot-pieman. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



8 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

I “ You shall smart for this,” gasped Mr. Pickwick. ^ 

» “ Informers ! ” shouted the crowd. .. . t 

“ Come on,” cried the cabman, who had been sparring with- 
out cessation the whole time. 

The mob had hitherto been passive spectators of the scene, 
but as the intelligence of the Pickwickians being informers was 
spread among them , they began to canvass with considerable 
vivacity the propriety of enforcing the heated pastry-vendor’s 
proposition : and there is no saying what acts of personal aggres- 
sion they might have committed, had not the affray been un- 
expectedly terminated by the interposition of a new comer. 

“What’s the fun?” said a rather tall thin young man , in a 
green coat, emerging suddenly from the coach-yard. 

. “ Informers ! ” shouted the crowd again. 

“ We are not,” roared Mr. Pickwick, in a tone which, to any 
dispassionate listener, carried conviction with it. 

“Ain’t you, though, — ain’t you?” said the young man, ap- 
pealing to Mr. Pickwick, and making his way through the crowd, 
by the infallible process of elbowing the countenances of its com- 
ponent members. 

That learned man in a few hurried words explained the real 
state of the case. 

“ Come along , then ,” said he of the green coat , lugging 
Mr. Pickwick after him by main force, and talking the whole 
way. “ Here , No. 924, take your fare, and take yourself off — 
respectable gentleman , — know him well — none of your non- 
sense— this way, sir — where’s your friends? — all a mistake, 
I see — nevermind — accidents will happen — best regulated fami- 
lies — never say die — down upon your luck — pull him up — 
put that in his pipe — like the flavour — damned rascals.” And 
with a lengthened string of similar broken sentences , delivered 
with extraordinary volubility, the stranger led the way to the 
travellers’ waiting room, whither he was clpsely followed by 
Mr. Pickwick and his disciples. 

“Here, waiter,” shouted the stranger, ringing the bell with 
tremendous violence , “ glasses round , — brandy and water, hot 
and strong, andsweet, and plenty, — eye damaged, sir? Waiter-, 
raw beefsteak for the gentleman’s eye, — nothing like raw beef- 
steak for a bruise, sir; cold lamp-post very good, but lamp-post 
inconvenient — damned odd standing in the open street half an 
hour, with your eye against a lamp-post — eh , — very good — 
ha! ha!” And the stranger, without stopping to take breath, 
Swallowed at a draught full half a pint of the reeking brandy and 
water, and flung himself into a chair with as much ease as if 
nothing uncommon had occurred. 

While his three companions were busily engaged in proffering 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB.' 9 

their thanks to their new acquaintance Mr. Pickwick had leisure 
to examine his costume and appearance. 

He was about the middle height , but the thinness of his body, 
and the length of his legs, gave him the appearance of being much 
taller. The green coat had been a. smart dress garment in the 
x days of swallow-tails, but had evidently in those times adorned 
a much shorter man than the stranger, for the soiled and faded 
sleeves scarcely reached to his wrists. It was buttoned closely up 
to his chin, at the imminent hazard of splitting the back *, and an , 
old stock, without a vestige of shirt collar, ornamented his neck, i v 
His scanty black trousers displayed here and there those shiny 
patches which bespeak long service , and were strapped very 
tightly over a pair of patched and mended shoes, as if to conceal 
the dirty white stockings , which were nevertheless distinctly 
visible. His long black hair escaped in negligent waves from be- 
neath each side of his old pinched up hat-, and glimpses of his 
bare wrist might be observed , between the tops of his gloves , • 
and the cuffs of his coat sleeves. His face was thin and haggard ; 
but an indescribable air of jaunty impudence and perfect self- 
possession pervaded the whole man. 

Such was the individual , on whom Mr. Pickwick gazed through 
his spectacles (which he had fortunately recovered), and to 
whom he proceeded , when his friends had exhausted themselves, 
to return, in chosen terms, his warmest thanks for his recent 
assistance. . 

“Never mind,” said the stranger, cutting the address very 
short, “said enough, — no more; smart chap that cabman — f 
handled his fives well ; but if I’d been your friend in the green ( 
jemmy — damn me — punch his head , — * ’cod I would , — pig’s 
whisper — pieman too, — no gammon.” 

This coherent speech was interrupted by the entrance of the 
Rochester coachman, to announce that “ The Commodore ” was 
on the point of starting. 

“ Commodore! ” said .the stranger, starling up , “ my coach , 

— place booked, — one outside — leave you to pay for the brandy 
and lypter, — want change for a five, — bad silver — Brummagem 
buttons — won’t d 6 — no go — eh ? ” and he shook his head most 
knowingly. 

Now it so happened that Mr. Pickwick and his three compa- 
nions had resolved to make Rochester their first halting place 
too ; and having intimated to their new-found acquaintance that 
they were journeying to the same city, they agreed to occupy 
the seat at the back of the coach, where they could all sit together. 

“ Up with you,” said the stranger, assisting Mr. Pickwick on 
to the roof with so much precipitation , as to impair the gravity 
of that gentleman’s deportment very materially. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



10 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

‘ ‘ Any luggage, sir ? ” inquired the coachman. 

“Who — I ? Brown paper parcel here, that’s all, other luggage 
gone by water, — packing-cases, nailed up — big as houses — 
heavy, heavy, damned heavy,” replied the stranger, as he forced 
into his pocket as much as he could of the brown paper parcel , 
which presented most suspicious indications of containing one 
shirt and a handkerchief. 

“ Heads, heads, take care of your heads,” cried the loquacious 
stranger, as they came out under the low ai'chway, which in 
those days formed the entrance to the coach-yard. “ Terrible 
place — dangerous work — other day — five children — mother 
— tall lady, eating sandwiches — forgot thearch — crash — knock 
— children look round — mother’s head off — sandwich in her 
hand — no mouth to put it in — head of a family off — shocking, 
shocking. Looking at Whitehall, sir, — fine place — little win- 
dow — somebody else’s head off there , eh, sir ? — he did’nt keep 
a sharp look-out enough either — eh, sir, eh? ” 

“ I was ruminating,” said Mr. Pickwick, “ on the strange mu- 
tability of human affairs.” 

“ Ah ! I see — in at the palace door one day, out at the window 
the next. Philosopher, sir?” 

“ An observer of human nature, sir,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Ah, so am I. Most people are when they’ve little to do and 
less to get. Poet, sir?” 

“ My friend Mr. Snodgrass has a strong poetic turn ,” said 
Mr. Pickwick. 

“ So have I ,” said the stranger. “ Epic poem, — ten thousand 
lines — revolution of July — composed it on the spot — Mars by 
day, Apollo by night, — bang the field-piece, twang the lyre.” 

“You were present at that glorious scene, sir?” said Mr. 
Snodgrass. 

“ Present ! think I was ; fired a musket , — fired with an idea, 
— rushed into wine shop —wrote it down — back again — whiz, 
bang — another idea — wine shop again — pen and ink — back 
again — cut and slash — noble time, sir. Sportsman, sir?” 
abruptly turning to Mr. Winkle. 

“ A little, sir,”' replied that gentleman. 

“ Fine pursuit , sir, — fine pursuit. — Dogs, sir ? ” 

“ Not just now,” said Mr. Winkle. 

“Ah! you should keep dogs — fine animals — sagacious crea- 
tures — dog of my own once— Pointer— surprising instinct— out 
shooting one day — entering inclosure — whistled — dog stopped 
—whistled again — Ponto — no go : stock still— called him — 
Ponto, Ponto — wouldn’t move — dog transfixed — staring at a 
board — looked up , saw an inscription — ‘ Gamekeeper has or- 

♦ 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB 11 

dcrs to shoot all dogs found in this' inclosure ’ — wouldn’t pass it 

— wpnderful dog — valuable dog that — very.” 

“ Singular circumstance that,” said Mr. Pickwick. “ Will you 
allow me to make a note of it ' ? ” 

“ Certainly, sir, certainly — hundred more anecdotes of the 
same.animal. — Fine girl, sir ” ( to Mr. Tracy Tupman, who had 
been bestowing sundry antirPickwickian glances on a young lady 
by the road side). 

“ Very !” said Mr. Tupman. 

“ English girls not so fine as Spanish — noble creatures — jet 
hair — black eyes — lovely forms — sweet creatures — beautiful.” 

“ You have been in Spain , sir? ” said Mr. Tracy Tupman. 

“ Lived there — ages. ” 

“ Many conquests, sir?” inquired Mr. Tupman. 

“Conquests! Thousands. Don Bolaro Fizzgig — Grandee — 
only daughter — Donna Christina — splendid creature — loved 
me to distraction — jealous father — high-souled daughter — 
handsome Englishman — Donna Christina in despair — prussic 
acid— stomach pump in my portmanteau — operation performed 

— old Bolaro in ecstacies— consent to our union — join hands 
and floods of tears — romantic story — very.” 

“ Is the lady in England now, sir?” inquired Mr. Tupman , 
on whom the description of her charms had produced a power- 
ful impression. 

“ Dead, sir— dead,” said the stranger, applying to his right 
eye the brief remnant of a very old cambric handkerchief. 
“ Never recovered the stomach pump — undermined constitu- 
tion — fell a victim.” 

“ And ^r father? ” inquired the poetic Snodgrass. 

“ Remoise and misery,” replied the stranger. •“ Sudden disap- 
pearance-^#|k,of the whole city — search made everywhere — 
without success — public fountain in the great square suddenly 
ceased playing — weeks elapsed — still a stoppage — workmen 
.employed to clean it— water drawn off — father-in-law disco- 
vered sticking head first in the main pipe , with a full confession 
in his right boot — took him out, and the fountain played away 
again, as well as ever.” 

“ Will you allow me to note that little romance down , sir ? ” 
Said Mr. Snodgrass , deeply affected. 

“ Certainly, sir, certainly, — fifty more if you like to hear ’em 
—strange life mine— rather curious history — not extraordinary, 
but singular.” 

1 Although we find this circumstance recorded as a “ singular ” one, in Mr. Pickwick’s 
note-book, we cannot refrain from humbly expressing our dissent from that learned au- 
thority. The stranger’s anecdote is not one quarter so wonderful as some of Mr. Jesse’s 
“ Gleanings.” Ponto sinks into utter insignificance before the dogs whose actions he 
records.— E d. 

# 


Digitized by 


Google 



12 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

' In this strain , with an occasional glass of ale, by way of paren- 

thesis , when the coach changed horses , did the stranger pro- 
ceed, until they reached Rochester bridge, by which time the 
note-books, both of Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Snodgrass , were 
completely filled With selections from his adventures. 

“ Magnificent ruin! ” said Mr. Augustus Snodgrass, with all 
the poetic fervour that distinguished him , when they came in 
sight of the fine old castle. 

“ What a study for an antiquarian!” were the very words 
which fell from Mr. Pickwick’s mouth, as he applied his telescope 
to his eye. 

“Ah! fine place,” said the stranger, “ glorious pile — frown- 
ing walls — tottering arches — dark nooks — crumbling stair- 
cases — Old cathedral too — earthy smell — pilgrims feet worn 
away the old steps — little Saxon doors— confessionals like money- 
takers’ boxes at theatres — queer customers those monks— Popes, 
and Lord Treasurers, and all sorts of old fellows, with great red 
faces, and broken noses, turning up every day — buff jerkins too | 
| — matchlocks — Sarcophagus — fine place — old legends too — 

• strange stories : capital ; ” and the stranger continued to solilo- 
quize until they reached the Bull Inn , in the High street, where 
the coach stopped. 

“ Do you remain here , sir? ” inquired Mr. Nathaniel Winkle. 

“ Here — not I — but you’d better — good house — nice beds 
—Wright’s next house, dear — very dear — half-a-crown in the 
bill, if you look at the waiter — icharge you more if you dine 
at a friend’s than they would if you dined in the coffee-room — 
f rum fellows — very.” 

Mr. Winkle turned to Mr. Pickwick , and murmured a few 
words*, a whisper passed from Mr. Pickwick to Mr. Snodgrass , 
from Mr. Snodgrass to Mr. Tupman, and nods of assent were 
exchanged. Mr. Pickwick addressed the stranger. 

“ You rendered us a very important service, this morning , 
sir,” said he ; “ will you allow us to offer a slight mark of our 
gratitude by begging the favour of your company at dinner? ” 

“ Great pleasure — not presume to dictate, but broiled fowl 
and mushrooms — capital thing! What time?” 

“ Let me see,” replied Mr. Pickwick, referring to his watch, 
“ it is now nearly three. Shall we say five? ” 

“ Suit me excellently,” said the stranger, “ five precisely — 
till then — care of yourselves and lifting the pinched up hat a 
few inches from his head , and carelessly replacing it very much 
on one side , the stranger, with half the brown paper parcel 
sticking out of his pocket , walked briskly up the yard, and turned 
into the High street. 


Digitized by 


Google 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. , 13 

‘ ‘ Evidently a traveller in many countries , and a close observer 
of men and things said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ I should like to see his poem ,” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“I should like to have seen that dog ,” said Mr. Winkle. 

Mr. Tupman said nothing; but he thought of Donna Chris- 
tina, the stomach pump, and the fountain; and his eyes filled 
with tears. 

A private sitting-room having been engaged, bed-rooms 
inspected, and dinner ordered, the party walked out to view 
the city, and adjoining neighbourhood. 

We do not find , from a careful perusal of Mr. Pickwick’s 
notes on the four towns, Stroud, Rochester, Chatham, and 
Brompton , that his impressions of their. appearance differ in any 
material point, from those of other travellers who have gone 
over the same ground. His general description is easily abridged. 

“ The principal productions of these towns,” says Mr. Pick- 
wick , “ appear to be soldiers , sailors , Jews , chalk , shrimps , / 
officers, and dockyard men. The commodities chiefly exposed 
for sale in the public streets, are marine stores, hard-bake, 
apples , flat-fish , and oysters. The streets present a lively and 
animated appearance , occasioned chiefly by the conviviality of 
the military. It is truly delightful to a philanthropic mind , to see 
these gallant men, staggering along under the influence of an 
overflow, both of animal ,• and ardent spirits ; more especially 
when we remember that the following them about , and jesting 
with them , affords a cheap and innocent amusement for the 
boy population. Nothing (adds Mr. Pickwick) can exceed their 
good humour. It was but the day before my arrival , that one of 
them had been most grossly insulted in the house of a publican. 
The bar-maid had positively refused to draw him any more 
liquor; in return for which, he -had (merely in playfulness) 
drawn bis bayonet , and wounded tbe girl in (he shoulder. And 
yet this fine fellow was the very first to go down to the house 
next morning , and express his readiness to overlook the matter, 
and forget what had occurred ! 

“The consumption of tobacco in these towns (continues 
Mr. Pickwick) must be very great : and tbe smell which pervades 
the streets must be exceedingly delicious to those who are 
extremely fond of smoking. A superficial traveller might object | i 
to the dirt which is their leading characteristic ; but to those who j 
view it as an indication of traffic , and commercial prosperity, it j 
is truly gratifying.” 

Punctual to five o’clock, came the stranger, and shortly 
afterwards the dinner. He had divested himself of his brown 
paper parcel , but had made no alteration in his attire ; and was, 
if possible ^pore loquacious than ever. 


Digitized* by v^.ooQle 



14 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ What’s that? ” he inquired, as the waiter removed one of 
the covers. 

“ Soles, sir.” 

“ Soles — ah ! — capital fish — all come from London — stage- 
coach proprietors get up political dinners — carriage of soles — 
dozens of baskets — cunning fellows. Glass of wine , sir ? ” 

“ With pleasure ,” said Mr. Pickwick — and the stranger took 
wine 5 first with him , and then with Mr. Snodgrass, and then 
with Mr. Tupman , and then with Mr. Winkle , and then with 
the whole party together, almost as rapidly as he talked. 

“ Devil of a mess on the staircase , waiter,” said the stranger, 
“ Forms going up — carpenters coming down — lamps , glasses, 
harps. What’s going forward? ” 

“ Ball , sir,” said the waiter. 

“ Assembly — eh?” 

“ No, sir, not assembly, sir. Ball for the benefit of a cha- 
rity, sir.” 

“ Many fine women in this town , do you know, sir?” in- 
quired Mr. Tupman , with great interest. 

“Splendid — capital. Kent, sir — Every body knows Kent 
— apples, cherries, hops, and women. Glass of wine, qir?” 

“ With great pleasure ,” replied Mr. Tupman. The stranger 
filled , and emptied. 

“ I should very much like to go,” said Mr. Tupman, resum- 
ing the subject of the ball , “ very much.” 

“ Tickets at the bar, sir,” interposed the waiter, “ half-a- 
guinea each , sir.” 

Mr. Tupman again expressed anWrnest wish to be present 
at the festivity ; but meeting with no response in the darkened 
eye of Mr. Snodgrass , or the abstracted gaze of Mr. Pickwick , 
he applied himself with great- interest to the port wine and des- 
sert which had just been placed on the table. The waiter with- 
drew , and the party were left to enjoy the cosy couple of hours 
succeeding dinner. 

“ Beg your pardon , sir,” said the stranger, “ Bottle stands — 
pass it round — way of the sun — through the button-hole — no 
heeltaps ,” and he emptied his glass , which he had filled about 
two minutes before ; and poured out another, with the air of a 
man who was used to it. 

The wine was passed , and a fresh supply ordered. The visitor 
talked , the Pickwickians listened. Mr. Tupman felt every mo- 
ment more disposed for the ball. Mr. Pickwick’s countenance 
glowed with an expression of universal philanthropy; and 
Mr. Winkle , and Mr. Snodgrass , fell fast asleep. 

“ They’re beginning up stairs ,” said the stranger — “ hear 
the company— fiddles tuning — now the harp — thtjje they go.” 


Digitized by 


Google 




OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 1 15 

The various sounds which found their way down stairs, an- 
nounced the commencement of the first quadrille. / 

“ How I should like to go ! ” said Mr. Tupman, again. (_ 

“So should I,” said the stranger, — “confounded luggage 
— heavy smacks — nothing to go in — odd, an’t it?” 

Now general benevolence was one of the leading features of 
the Pickwickian theory, and no one was more remarkable for 
the zealous manner in which he observed so noble a principle, 
than Mr. Tracy Tupman. The number of instances , recorded 
on the transactions of the Society, in which that excellent man 
referred objects of charity to the houses of other members for 
left-off garments , or pecuniary relief, is almost incredible. 

“ I should be very happy to lend you a change of apparel for 
the purpose,” said Mr. Tracy Tupman , “ but you are rather 
slim, and I am — ” 

“Rather fat — grown up Bacchus — cut the leaves — dis- 
mounted from the tub , and adopted kerse y, eh ? — not double / 
distilled , but double milled — ha ! ha ! — pass the wine.” 

Whether Mr. Tupman was somewhat indignant at the per- 
emptory tone in which he was desired to pass the wine which 
the stranger passed so quickly away ; or whether he felt very 
properly scandalized , at an influential member of the Pickwick 
club being ignominiously compared to a dismounted Bacchus, 
is a fact not yet completely ascertained. He passed the wine, 
coughed twice , and looked at the stranger for several seconds 
with a stern intensity; as that individual , however, appeared 
perfectly collected, and quite calm under his searching glance, 
he gradually relaxed, and reverted to the subject of the ball. 

“ I was about to observe, sir,” he said, “ that though my 
apparel would be too large , a suit of my friend Mr. Winkle’s 
would , perhaps , fit you better.” 

The stranger took Mr. Winkle’s measure with his eye ; and 
that feature glistened with satisfaction as he said — “ Just the 
thing ! ” 

Mr. Tupman looked round him. The wine which had exert- 
ed its somniferous influence over Mr. Snodgrass, and Mr. 
Winkle, tad stolen upon the senses of Mr. Pickwick. That 
gentleman had gradually passed through the various stages 
which precede the lethargy produced by dinner, and its con- 
sequences. Hq had undergone the ordinary transitions from the 
height of conviviality, to the depth of misery, and from the dejfth 
of misery, to the height of conviviality. Like a gas lamp in the 
street, withtjhe wind in the pipe , he had exhibited for a moment 
an unnatural brilliancy : then sunk so low as to be scarcely dis- 
cernible : after a short interval, he had burst out again, to enlight- • 
en for a moment , then flickered with an uncertain , staggering 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



16 1 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

sort of light, and then gone out altogether. His head was sunk 

upon his bosom *, and perpetual snoring, with a partial choke, 

occasionally, were the only audible indications of the great man’s 

presence. 

The temptation to be present at the ball, and to form his first 
impressions of the beauty of the Kentish ladies, was strong upon 
Mr. Tupman. The temptation to take the stranger with him, 
was equally great.. He was wholly unacquainted with the place, 
and its inhabitants; and the stranger seemed to possess as great 
a knowledge of both , as if he had lived there from his infancy. 
Mr. Winkle was asleep, and Mr. Tupman had had sufficient 
experience in such matters to know, that the moment he awoke, 
he would , in the ordinary course of nature, roll heavily to bed. 
He was undecided. “ Fill your glass, and pass the wine,” said 
the indefatigable visitor. 

Mr. Tupman did as he was requested ; and the additional sti- 
mulus of the last glass settled his determination.” 

“ Winkle’s bed-room is inside mine,” said Mr. Tupman ; “ I 
couldn’t make him understand what I wanted , if I woke him 
now, but I know he has a dress suit, in a carpet bag; and sup- 
posing you wore it to the ball, and took it off when we returned, 
I could replace it without troubling him at all about the matter.” 

“ Capital,” said the stranger, “ famous plan — damned odd 
situation — fourteen coats in the packing cases , and obliged fo 
wear another man’s — very good notion , that — very.” 

“ We must purchase our tickets,” said Mr. Tupman. 

“Not worth while splitting a guinea,” said the stranger, 
I “ toss who shall pay for both — I call ; you spin — first time — 
woman — woman — bewitching woman,” and down came the 
sovereign , with the Dragon (called by courtesy a woman) up- 
permost. 

Mr. Tupman rang the bell , purchased the tickets, and order- 
ed chamber-candlesticks. In another quarter of an hour, the 
stranger was completely arrayed in a full suit of Mr. Nathaniel 
Winkle’s. 

“ It’s a new coat,” said Mr. Tupman , as the stranger sur- 
I veyed himself with great complacency in a cheval glass. “ The 
first that’s been made with our club buttori7 r — and he called 
his companion’s attention to the large gilt button which dis- 
played a bust of Mr. Pickwick in the centre, and the letters 
‘“P. C.” on either side. 

“ P. C.” said the stranger, — “ Queer set out — old fellow’s 
likeness, and .‘P. C.’ — What does P. C. stand for — Peculiar 
Coat , eh ? ” Me. Tupman , with rising indignation , and great 
importance , explained the mystic device. 

“ Rather short in the waist, a’ntit?” said the stranger, screw- 


Digitized by v^ooQle 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. • ^ 17 

ing himself round, to catch a glimpse in the glass of the waist 
buttons which were half way up his back. “ Like a general 
postman’s coat — queer coats those — made by contract— no 
measuring — mysterious dispensations of Providence — all the 
short men get long coats — all the long' men short ones.” Run- 
ning on in this way, Mr. Tupman’s new companion adjusted his 
dress , or rather the dress of Mr. Winkle ; and , accompanied 
by Mr. Tupman, ascended the staircase leading to the ball-room. 

“ What names , sir? ” said the man at the door. Mr. Tracy 
Tupman was stepping forward to announce his own titles, when 
the stranger prevented him. 

“ No names at all,” — and then he whispered Mr. Tupman, 

“ Names won’t do — not known— very good names in their way, 
but not great ones— capital names for a small party, but won’t 
make an impression in public assemblies — incog, the thing — 
Gentlemen from London — distinguished foreigners — any- 
thing.” The door was thrown open ; and Mr. Tracy Tupman, 
and the stranger, entered the ball-room. 

It was a long room , with crimson-covered benches, and wax 
candles, in glass chandeliers. The musicians were securely 
confined in an elevated den , and quadrilles were being syste- 
matically got through by two or three sets of dancers. Two card- 
tables were made up in the adjoining card-room , and two pair 
ofold ladies, and a corresponding number of stout gentlemen , 
were executing whist therein. 

The finale concluded , the dancers promenaded the room, and 
Mr. Tupman and his companion stationed themselves in a corner, 
to observe the company. 

“ Charming women,” said Mr. Tupman. 

“ Wait a minute,” said the stranger, “ fun presently — nobs | 
not come yet — queer place — Dock-yard people of upper rank 1 
don’t know Dock-yard people of lower rank — Dock-yard people 
- of lower rank don’t know small gentry — small gentry don’t 
know tradespeople — Commissioner don’t know anybody.” 

“ Who’s that little boy with the light hair and pink eyes, in a 
fancy dress?” inquired Mr. Tupman. 

“ Hush, pray —pink eyes— fancy dress— little boy — nonsense 
— Ensign 97th. — Honourable Wilmot Snipe — great family — 

I Snipes — very.” 

“ Sir Thomas Clubber, Lady Clubber, and the Miss Clubbers !” 
shouted the man at the door in a stentorian voice. A great sen- 
sation was createdthroughout the room, by the entrance of a tall 
gentleman in a blue coat and bright buttons, a large lady in blue 
satin , and two young ladies on a similar scale , in fashionably- 
made dresses of the same hue. 

, • “ Commissioner— head of the yard— great man— remarkably 

I. 2 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



18 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

great man ,” whispered the stranger in Mr. Tupman’s ear, as 
the charitable committee ushered Sir Thomas Clubber and family 
to the top of the room. The honourable Wilmot Snipe , and 
other distinguished gentlemen crowded to render homage to the 
Miss Clubbers ; and Sir Thomas Clubber stood bolt upright , and 
looked majestically over his black neckerchief at the assembled 
company. 

“ Mr. Smithie, Mrs. Smithie, and the Misses Smithie,” was 
the next announcement. 

“ What’s Mr. Smithie?” inquired Mr. Tracy Tupman. 

“ Something in the yard ,” replied the stranger. Mr. Smithie 
bowed deferentially to Sir Thomas Clubber ; and Sir Thomas 
Clubber acknowledged the salute with conscious condescension. 
Lady Clubber took a telescope view of Mrs. Smithie and family, 
through her eye-glass, and Mrs. Smithie stared in her turn at 
Mrs. Somedoby else, whose husband was not in the Dock-yard 
at all. 

“ Colonel Bulder, Mrs. Colonel Bulder and Miss Bulder,” 
were the next arrivals. 

‘ ‘ Head of the garrison ,” said the stranger, in reply to Mr ^Tup- 
man’s inquiring look. 

Miss Bulder was warmly welcomed by the Miss Clubbers ; the 
greeting between Mrs. Colonel Bulder, and Lady Clubber, was 
of the most affectionate description ; Colonel Bulder and Sir 
Thomas Clubber exchanged snuff-boxes , and looked very much 
like a pair of Alexander Selkirks 5 — “ Monarchs of all they sur- 
veyed.” 

While the aristocracy of the place — the Bulders, and Clubbers, 
and Snipes— were thus preserving their dignity at the upper end 
of the room, the other classes of society were imitating their 
example in other parts of it. The less aristocratic officers of the 
97th devoted themselves to the families of the less important 
functionaries from the Dock-yard. Thesolicitors’ wives, and the 
wine merchant’s wife , headed another grade, (the brewer’s wife 
visited the Bulders;) and Mrs. Tomlinson, the post-office keeper, 
seemed by mutual consent to have been chosen the leader of the 
trade party. 

One of the most popular personages, in his own circle, present, 
was a little fat man , with a ring of upright black hair round his 
head , and an extensive bald plain on the top of it. —Doctor 
Slammer, surgeon to the 97th. The doctor took snuff with 
everybody, chatted with everybody, laughed, danced, made 
jokes , played whist , did everything , and was everywhere. To 
these pursuits, multifarious as they were , the little doctor added 
a more important one than any — he was indefatigable in paying 
the most unremitting and devoted attention to a little old widow, 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 19 

whose rich dress and profusion of ornament bespoke her a most 
desirable addition to a limited income. 

Upon the doctor, and the widow, the eyes both of Mr. Tupman 
and his companion had been fixed for some time , when the stran- 
ger broke silence. 

“ Lots of money — old girl— pompous doctor— not a bad idea 
— good fim,” were the intelligible sentences which issued from 
his lips. Mr. Tupman looked inquisitively in his face. 

“ I’ll dance with the widow,” said the stranger. 

“ Who is she?” inquired Mr. Tupman. 

“ Don’t know — never saw her in all my life — cut out the 
doctor — here goes.” And the stranger forthwith crossed the 
room ; and, leaning against a mantel-piece , commenced gazing 
with an air of respectful and melancholy admiration on the fat 
countenance of the little old lady. Mr. Tupman looked on , in 
mute astonishment. The stranger progressed rapidly ; the little 
doctor danced with another lady — the widow dropped her fan ; 
the stranger picked it up , and presented it , — a smile — a bow — 
a curtsey— a few words of conversation. The stranger walked 
boldly up to , and returned with , the master of the ceremonies ; 
a little introductory pantomime ; and the stranger and Mrs. Bud- 
ger took their places in a quadrille. 

The surprise of Mr. Tupman at this summary proceeding , 
great as itwas, was immeasurably exceeded by the astonishment 
of the dbctor. The stranger was young, and the widow was 
flattered. The doctor’s attentions were unheeded by the Widow ; 
and the doctor’s indignation was wholly lost on his imperturb- 
able rival. Doctor Slammer was paralyzed. He, Doctor Slammer 
of the 97 th , to be extinguished in a moment , by a man whom 
nobody had ever seen before, and whom nobody kpew even now ! 
Doctor Slammer — Doctor Slammer of the 97th rejected ! Impos- 
sible! It could not be! Yes, itwas; there they wfere. Whait! intro- 
ducing his friend ! Could he believe his eyes ! He looked again, 
and was under the painful necessity of admitting the veracity of 
his optics-, Mrs. Budger was dancing with Mr. Tracy Tupman , 
there was no mistaking the fact. There was the widow before him, 
bounciDg bodily, here and there , with unwonted vigour ; and Mr. 
Tracy Tupman hopping about, with a face expressive of the most 
intense solemnity, dancing ( as a good many people do) as if a 
quadrille were not a thing to be laughed at , but a severe trial to 
the feelings , which it requires inflexible resolution to encounter. 

Silently and patiently did the doctor bear all this , and all the 
| handings of negus , and watching for glasses, and darting for 
biscuits, and coquetting, that ensued; but, a few seconds after 
the stranger had disappeared to lead Mrs. Budger to her car- 
riage , he darted swiftly from the room with every particle of 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



&0 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

his hitherto-bottled-up indignation effervescing , from all parts 
of his countenance , in a perspiration of passion. 

The stranger was returning, and Mr. Tupman was beside him. 
He spoke in a low tone , and laughed. The little doctor thirsted 
for his life. He was exulting. He had triumphed. 

“ Sir ! ” said the doctor, in an awful voice , producing a card, 
and retiring into an angle of the passage, “my name is Slammer, 
Doctor Slammer, sir — 97 th regiment— Chatham Barracks — my 
card, sir, my card.” He would have added more, but his in- 
dignation choaked him. ‘ 

“ Ah ! ” replied the stranger, coolly, “ Slammer — much obliged 
— polite attention — not ill now, Slammer — but when lam — 
knock you up.” 

“ You— you’re a shuffler, sir,” gasped the furious doctor, “ a 
poltroon — a coward— a liar — a — a — will nothing induce you to 
give me your card , sir? ” 

“ Oh! I see,” said thestranger, half aside T “ n egus too strong 
here — liberal landlord — very foolish — very — lemonade much 
better — hot rooms — elderly gentlemen — suffer for it in the morn- 
ing — cruel — cruel ;” and he moved on a step or two. 

“ You are stopping in this house , sir,” said the indignant 
little man ; “ you are intoxicated now, sir; you shall hear from 
me in the morning, sir. I shall find you out, sir; I shall find you out.” 

“ Rather you found me out, than found me at home,” replied 
the unmoved stranger. 

Doctor Slammer looked unutterable ferocity, as he fixed his 
hat on his head with an indignant knock : and the stranger and 
Mr. Tupman ascended to the bed-room of the latter to restore 
the borrowed plumage to the unconscious Winkle. 

That gentleman was fast asleep ; the restoration was soon 
made. The stranger was extremely jocose; and Mr. Tracy 
Tupman , being quite bewildered with wine, negus , lights, and 
ladies, thought the whole affair an exquisite joke. His new friend 
departed ; and, after experiencing some slight difficulty in finding 
the orifice in his night-cap , originally intended for the reception 
of his head , and finally overturning his candlestick in his strug- 
gles to put it on , Mr. Tracy Tupman managed to get into bed , 
by a series of complicated evolutions , and shortly afterwards 
sank into repose. 

Seven o’clock had hardly ceased striking on the following 
morning, when Mr. Pickwick’s comprehensive mind was aroused 
from the state of unconsciousness , in which slumber had plunged 
it , by a loud knocking at bis chamber door. 

“Who’s there?” said Mr. Pickwick, starting up in bed. 

“ Boots , sir.” 

“ What do you want?” 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 2t 

“Please, sir, can you tell me, which gentleman of your party 
wears a bright blue dress coat, with a gilt button with P. C. on it? ” 

“It’s been given out to brush,” thought Mr. Pickwick; and 
the man has forgotten whom it belongs to — “ Mr. Winkle,” he 
called out , “ next room but two , on the right hand.” 

“ Thank’ee, sir,” said the Boots, and away he went. 

“ What’s the matter?” cried Mr. Tupman, as a loud knocking 
at his door roused him from his oblivious repose. 

“ Can I speak to Mr. Winkle, sir?” replied the Boots, from 
the outside. 

“ Winkle— Winkle ,” shouted Mr. Tupman , calling into the 
inner room. 

“ Hallo ! ” replied a faint voice from within the bed-clothes. 

“ You’re wanted— some one at the door — ’’ and having exerted 
himself to articulate thus much , Mr. Tracy Tupman turned 
round and fell fast asleep again. 

“ Wanted!” said Mr. Winkle, hastily jumping out of bed , 
and putting on a few articles of clothing : “ wanted! at this dis- 
tance from town— who on earth can want me?” 

“Gentleman in the coffee-room, sir,” replied the Boots , as 
Mr. Winkle opened the door, and confronted him ; “ gentleman 
says he’ll not detain you amoment, sir, but he can take no denial.” 

“ Very odd ! ” said Mr. Winkle; “ I’ll be down directly.” 

He hurriedly wrapped himself in a travelling-shawl, and dress- 
ing-gown, and proceeded down stairs. An old woman and a 
couple of waiters were cleaning the coffee-room , and an officer 
in undress uniform was looking out of the window. He turned 
round as Mr. Winkle entered , and made a stiff inclination of 
the head. Having ordered the attendants to retire , and closed 
the door very carefully, he said , “ Mr. Winkle , I presume?” 

“ My name is Winkle, sir.” 

“ You will not be surprised, sir, when I inform you, that I 
have called here this morning on behalf of my friend , Dr. Slam- 
mer, of the Ninety-seventh.” 

“ Doctor Slammer !” said Mr. Winkle. 

“ Doctor Slammer. He begged me to express his opinion that 
your conduct of last evening was of a description which no gen- 
tleman could endure : and ( he added ) which no one gentleman 
would pursue towards another.” 

Mr. Winkle’s astonishment was too real , and too evident , to 
escape the observation of Doctor Slammer’s friend ; he therefore 
proceeded. — “ My friend , Doctor Slammer, requested me to 
add , that he is (irmly pei$uaded you were intoxicated during a 
portion of the evening, and possibly unconscious of the extent 
of the insult you were guilty of. He commissioned me to say, 
that should this be pleaded as an excuse for your behaviour, he 


Digitized by V^.OCK £ 



22 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

will consent to accept a written apology, to be penned by you, 
from my dictation.” 

“ A written apology!” repeated Mr. Winkle, in the most 
emphatic tone of amazement possible. 

“ Of course you know the alternative,” replied the visiter, 
coolly. 

“ Were you entrusted with this message to me, by name?” 
inquired Mr. Winkle whose intellects were hopelessly confused 
by this extraordinary conversation. * & 

“ I was not present myself,” replied the vfeitBr, “ and in con- 
sequence of your firm refusal to give your card to Doctor Slam- 
mer, I was desired by that gentleman to identify the wearer of a 
very uncommon coat — a bright blue dress coat, with, a gilt but- 
ton , displaying ^ajbust , and the letters ‘ P. C.’ ” 

Mr. Winkle actually staggered with astonishment, as he heard 
his own costume thus minutely described. Doctor Slammer’s 
friend proceeded : — 

“ From the inquiries I made at the bar, just now, I was con- 
vinced that the owner of the coat in question arrived here , with 
three gentlemen , yesterday afternoon. I immediately sent up 
to the gentleman who was described as appearing the head of 
the party $ and he , at once , referred me to you.” 

# If the principal tower of Rochester Castle had suddenly walked 
from its foundation , and stationed itself opposite the coffee- 
room window, Mr. Winkle’s surprise would have been as no- 
thing , compared with the profound astonishment with which he 
had heard this address. His first impression was , that his coat 
had been stolen. “ Will you allow me to detain you one mo- 
ment?” said he. 

u Certainly,” replied the unwelcome visiter. 

Mr. Winkle ran hastily up stairs , and with a trembling hand 
opened the bag. There was the coat in its usual place, but exhi- 
biting, on a close inspection , evident tokens of having been ' 
worn on the preceding night. 

“ It must be so,” said Mr. Winkle , letting the coat fall from 
his hands. “ I took too much wine after dinner, and have a very 
vague recollection of walking about the streets, and smoking a 
cigar, afterwards. The fact is, I was very drunk-, — I must have 
changed my coat — gone somewhere — and insulted somebody 
— I have no doubt of it-, and this message is the terrible conse- 
quence.” Saying which, Mr. Winkle retraced his steps in the 
direction of the coffee-room , with the gloomy and dreadful 
resolve of accepting the challenge of the warlike Doctor Slammer, 
and abiding by the worst consequences that might ensue. 

To this determination Mr. Winkle was urged by a variety of 
considerations -, the first of which was , his reputation with the 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 23 

club. He had always been looked up to as a high authority on 
all matters of amusement and dexterity, whether offensive , de- 
fensive , or inoffensive ; and if, on this very first occasion of 
being put to the test , he shrunk back from the trial, beneath his 
leader’s eye , his name and standing were lost for ever. Besides, 
he remembered to have heard it frequently surmised by the 
uninitiated in such matters , that by an understood arrangement 
between the seconds, the pistols were seldom loaded with ball; 
and, furthermore, he reflected that if he applied to Mr. Snod- 
grass to act a? M b second, and depicted the danger in glowing 
terms , that gentleman might possibly communicate the intelli- 
gence to Mr. Pickwick,, who would certainly lose no time in 
transmitting it to the local authorities , and thus prevent the kill- 
ing or maiming of his follower. 

Such were his thoughts when he returned to the coffee-room, 
and intimated his intention of accepting the Doctor’s challenge. 

“ Will you refer me to a friend , to arrange the time and place 
of meeting? ” said the officer. 

“ Quite unnecessary,” replied Mr. Winkle; “ name them to' 
me , and I can procure the attendance of a friend , afterwards.” 

“ Shall we say — sunset this evening?” inquired the officer, in 
a careless tone. 

“Very good,” replied Mr. Winkle ; thinking in his heart it was 
very bad. 

“ You know Fort Pitt? ” 

“ Yes ; I saw it yesterday.” 

“Ifyou will take the trouble to turn into the field which borders 
' the trench , take the foot-path to the left, when you arrive at an 
angle of the fortification ; and keep straight on till you see me ; 
I will precede you to a secluded place , where the affair can be 
conducted without fear of interruption.” 

“ Fear of interruption ! ” thought Mr. Winkle. 

“ Nothing more (^arrange, I think,” said the officer. 

“ I am not avdke of anything more ,” replied Mr. Winkle. 

“ Good morning.” 

“ Good morning : ” and the officer whistled a lively air, as he 
strode away. 

That morning’s breakfast passed heavily off. Mr. Tupman 
was not in a condition to rise , after the unwonted dissipation of 
the previous night ; Mr. Snodgrass appeared to labour under a 
poetical depression of spirits ; and even Mr. Pickwick evinced an 
unusual attachment to silence and soda water. Mr. Winkle eager- 
ly watched bis opportunity. It wjUJidt long wanting. Mr. Snod- 
grass proposed a visit to the castre , and as Mr. Winkle was the 
only other member of the party disposed to walk , they went out 
together. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



24 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ Snodgrass ,” said Mr. Winkle , when they had turned out of 
the public street ; “ Snodgrass , my dear fellow, can I rely upon 
your secresy ? ” As he said this , he most devoutly and earnestly 
hoped he could not. 

“ You can ,” replied Mr. Snodgrass. “ Hear me swear — ” 

“ No , no interrupted Winkle , terrified at the idea of his 
companion’s unconsciously pledging himself not ho give infor- 
mation*, “ don’t swear, don’t swear 5 it’s quite unnecessary.” 

Mr. Snodgrass dropped the hand which he had , in the spirit 
of poesy, raised towards the clouds, as he ifeade the above appeal, 
and assumed an attitude of attention. \ 

“ I want your assistance , my dear fellow, in an affair of ho- 
nour,” said Mr. Winkle. 

“ You shall have it,” replied Mr. Snodgrass, clasping his 
friend’s hand. 

“ With a Doctor — Doctor Slammer, of the Ninety-seventh ,” 
said Mr. Winkle, wishing to make the matter appear as solemn as 
possible ; “ an affair with an officer seconded by another officer, 
at sunset this evening, in a lonely field beyond FortPJitt.” 

“ I will attend you ,” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

He was astonished , but by no means dismayed. It is extraor- 
dinary how cool any party but the principal can be in such cases. 
Mr. Winkle had forgotten this. He had judged of his friend’s 
feelings by his own. 

“ The consequences may be dreadful,” said Mr. Winkle. 

“ I hope not,” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ The doctor, I believe, is a very good shot,” said Mr. Winkle. 

. “ Most of these military men are ,” observed Mr. Snodgrass , 
calmly 5 “ but so are you , a’n’t you? ” T * 

Mr. Winkle replied in the affirmative*, and perceiving that' he 
had not alarmed his companion sufficiently, changed his ground. 

“ Snodgrass,” he said, in a voice tremjdous with emotion, 
“ if I fall, you will find in a packet which 1 ^all place in your 
hands a note for my — for my father.” 

This attack was a failure also. Mr. Snodgrass was affected , 
but he undertook the delivery of the note, as readily as if he had 
been a Twopenny Postman. 

“ If I fall,” said Mr. Winkle , “ or if the doctor falls , you , 
my dear friend , will be tried as an accessory before the fact. 
Shall I involve my friend in transportation — possibly for life ! ” 

Mr. Snodgrass winced a little at this , but his heroism was 
invincible. “ In the cause of fl^ndship,” he fervently exclaimed, 
“ \ would brave all dangers.^ 

How Mr. Winkle cursed his companion’s devoted friendship 
internally, as they walked silently along, side by side, for some 


Digitized by 


Google 


it 



OP THE PICKWICK CLUB. 25 

minutes, each immersed in his own meditations! The morning 
was wearing away ; he grew desperate. 

“ Snodgrass,” he said, stopping suddenly, “ do not let me 
he baulked in this matter — do not give information to the local 
authorities — do not obtain the assistance of several peace officers, 
to take either me or Doctor Slammer, of the Ninety-seventh 
Regiment, at present quartered in Chatham Barracks, into 
custody, and thus prevent this duel 5 — I say, do not.” 

Mr. Snodgrass seized his friend’s hand warmly, as he enthu- 
siastically replied , “ Not for worlds ! ” 

A thrill passed over Mr. Winkle’s frame , as' the conviction , 
that he had nothing to hope from his friend’s fears , and that 
he was destined to become an animated target , rushed forcibly 
upon him. 

The state of the case having been formally explained to 
Mr. Snodgrass, and a case of satisfaction pistols, with the satis- 
factory accompaniments of powder, ball, and caps , having been 
hired from a manufacturer in Rochester, the two friends re- 
turned to their inn : Mr. Winkle, to ruminate on the approaching 
struggle; and Mr. Snodgrass, to arrange the weapons of war, 
and put them into proper order for immediate use. 

It was a dull and heavy evening , when they again sallied forth 
on their awkward errand. Mr. Wiukle was muffled up in a huge 
cloak to escape observation ; and Mr. Snodgrass bore under his 
the instruments of destruction. 

“ Have you got ev’ry thing? ” said Mr. Winkle , in an agitated 
tone. 

“ Ev’rything,” replied Mr. Snodgrass; “ plenty of ammuni- 
tion , in case the shots don’t take effect. There’s a quarter of a 
pound of powder in the case , and I have got two newspapers in 
my pocket , for the loadings.” 

These were instances of friendship ; fqr which any man might 
reasonably feel most grateful. The presumption is , that the 
gratitude of Mr. Winkle was too powerful for utterance , as he 
said nothing , but continued to walk on — rather slowly. 

“We are in excellent time,” said Mr. Snodgrass, as they 
climbed the fence of the first field ; “ the sun is just going down.” 
Mr. Winkle looked up at the declining orb, and painfully thought 
of the probability of his “ going down ” himself, before long. 

• “There’s the officer,” exclaimed Mr. Winkle, after a few 
minutes’ walking. 

“ Where? ” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ There; — the gentleman in tWblue cloak.” Mr. Snodgrass 
looked in the direction indicated Uy the forefinger of his friend , 
and observed a figure , muffled up , as he had described. The 
officer evinced his consciousness of their presence by slightly 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



26 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

beckoning with his hand ; and the two friends followed him, at 
a little distance , as he walked away. 

The evening grew more dull every moment, and a melancholy 
wind sounded through the deserted fields, like a distant giant, 
whistling for his house-dog. The sadness of the scene imparted 
a sombre tinge to the feelings of Mr. Winkle. He started as 
they passed the angle of the trench — it looked like a colossal 
grave. 

The officer turned suddenly from the path ; and after climbing 
a paling , and scaling a hedge , entered a secluded field. Two 
gentlemen were wailing in it; one was a little fat man, with 
black hair; and the other — a portly personage in a braided sur- 
tout — was sitting with perfect equanimity on a camp-stool. 

“ The other party, and a surgeon, I suppose,” said Mr. Snod- 
grass; “ take a drop of brandy.” Mr. Winkle seized the wicker 
bottle , which his friend proffered , and took a lengthened pull 
at the exhilarating liquid. 

“ My friend, sir, Mr. Snodgrass,” said Mr. Winkle, as the 
officer approached. Doctor Slammer’s friend bowed, and pro- 
duced a case similar to that which Mr. Snodgrass carried. 

“ We have nothing further to say, sir, I think ,” he coldly 
remarked , as he opened the case; “ an apology has been reso- 
lutely declined.” 

“ Nothing , sir,” said Mr. Snodgrass, who began to feel rather 
uncomfortable himself. 

“ Will you step forward? ” said the officer. 

“ Certainly,” replied Mr. Snodgrass. The ground was measur- 
ed, and preliminaries arranged. 

“ You will find these better than your own,” said the opposite 
secon d , producing his pistols. “ You saw me load them. Do you 
object to use them ? ” 

“.Certainly not,” replied Mr. Snodgrass. The offer relieved 
him from considerable embarrassment; for his previous'notions 
of loading a pistol were rather vague and undefined. 

We may place our men , then , I think,” observed the officer, 
with as much indifference as if the principals were chess-men , 
and the seconds players. 

“ I think we may,” replied Mr. Snodgrass ; who would have 
assented to any proposition, because he knew nothing about the 
matter. The officer crossed to Doctor Slammer, and Mr. Snod- 
grass went up to Mr. Winkle. 

“ It’s all ready,” he said , offering the pistol. “ Give me your 
ejoak.” 

“ You have got the packet, my dear fellow,” said poor Winkle. 

“ All right,” said Mr. Snodgrass. “ Be steady, and wing him.” 

It occurred to Mr. Winkle that this advice was very like that 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 27 

which by-standers invariably give to the smallest boy in a street 
fight $ namely, “ Go in , and win : ” — an admirable thing to re- 
commend, if you only know how to do it. He took off his 
cloak , however, in silence — it always took a long time to undo 
that cloak — and accepted the pistol. The seconds retired , the 
gentleman on the.camp-stool did the same, and the belligerents 
approached each other. 

Mr. Winkle was always remarkable for extreme humanity. 
It is conjectured that his unwillingness to hurt a fellow-creature 
intentionally, was the cause of his shutting his eyes when he 
arrived at the fatal spot ; and that the circumstance of iHs eyes 
being closed, prevented his observing the very extraordinary 
and unaccountable demeanour of Doctor Slammer. That gentle- 
man started, stared, retreated, rubbed his eyes, stared again*, 
and , finally, shouted “ Stop, stop ! ” 

“ What’s all this?” said Doctor Slammer, as his friend and 
Mr. Snodgrass came running up — “ That’s not the man.” 

“ Not the man! ” said Doctor Slammer’s second. 

“ Not the man ! ” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“Not the man! ” said the gentleman with the camp-stool in 
his hand. 

“ Certainly not,” replied the little doctor. “That’s not the 
person who insulted me last night.” , 

“ Very extraordinary!” exclaimed the officer. 

“ Very,” said the gentleman with the camp-stool. “ The only 
question is, whether the gentleman , being on the ground , must 
not be considered, as* a matter of form, to be the individual 
who insulted our friend, Doctor Slammer, yestenfay evening, 
whether he is really that individual or not : ” and having de- 
livered this suggestion, with a very sage and mysterious air, the 
man with the camp-stool took a large pinch of snuff, and looked 
- profoundly round , with the air of an authority in such matters. 

Now Mr. Winkle had opened his eyes, and his ears too, 
when he heard his adversary call out for a cessation of hosti- 
lities 5 and perceiving by what he had afterwards said , that there 
was, beyond all question, some mistake in the matter, he at 
once foresaw the increase of reputation he should inevitably 
acquire, by concealing the real motive of his coming out : he 
therefore stepped boldly forward , and said — 

“ I am not the person. I know it.” 

“Then, that,” said the man with the camp-stool, “is an 
affront to Doctor Slammer, an<j>a sufficient reason for proceed- 
ing immediately.” 

“ Pray be quiet , Payne ,” said the doctor’s second. “ Why 

did you not com municate this fact to me , this morning , sir ? ” 


Digitized by 


Google 



28 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ To be sure — to be sure ,” said the man with the camp-stool , 
indignantly. 

“ I entreat you to be quiet, Payhe,” said the other. “ May I 
repeat my question, sir?” 

“ Because, sir,” replied Mr. Winkle, who had bad time to de- 
liberate upon his answer — “because, sir, you described an in- 
toxicated and ungentlemanly person as wearing a coat , which 
I have the honour, not only to wear, but to have invented — the 
proposed uniform , sir, of the Pickwick Club in London. The 
honour of that unifom I feel bound to maintain , and I there- 
fore , without inquiry , accepted the challenge which you of- 
fered me.” 

“ My dear sir,” said the good-humoured little doctor, advancing 
with extended hand, “ I honour your gallantry. Permit me to 
say, sir, that I highly admire your conduct, and extremely 
regret having caused you the inconvenience of this meeting , to 
no purpose.” 

“ I beg you won’t mention it, sir,” said Mr. Winkle. 

“ I shall feel proud of your acquaintance , sir,” said the little 
doctor. 

“ It will afford me the greatest pleasure to know you, sir,” 
replied Mr. Winkle. Thereupon the doctor and Mr. Winkle 
shook hands , and then Mr. Winkle and Lieutenant Tappleton 
(the doctor’s second ) ; and then Mr. Winkle and the man with 
the camp-stool, and, finally, Mr. Winke and Mr. Snodgrass : 
the last named gentleman in an excess of admiration at the noble 
conduct of his heroic friend.” 

“ I think we may adjourn ,” said Lieutenant Tappleton. 

“ Certainly,” added the doctor. 

“ Unless,” interposed the man with the camp-stool, “ unless 
Mr. Winkle feels himself aggrieved by the challenge $ in which 
case , I submit , he has a right to satisfaction.” 

Mr. Winkle, with great self-denial, expressed himself quite 
satisfied already. 

“ Or possibly,” said the man with the camp-stool , the gentle- 
man’s second may feel himself affronted with some observations 
which fell from me at an early period of this meeting : if so , I 
shall be happy to give him satisfaction immediately.” 

Mr. Snodgrass hastily professed himself very much obliged 
with the handsome offer of the gentleman who had spoken last, 
which he was only induced to decline , by his entire content- 
ment with the whole proceedings. The two seconds adjusted the 
cases, and the whole party left t\je ground in a much more lively 
manner than they bad proceeded to it. 

“ Do you remain long here?” inquired Doctor Slammer of 
Mr. Winkle, as they walked on most amicably together. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 29 

. “ I think we shall leave here the day after to-morrow,” was 
the reply. 

“ I trust I shall have the pleasure of seeing you and your friend 
at my rooms , and of spending a pleasant evening with you , 
after this awkward mistake,” said the little doctor; “ are you 
disengaged this evening ? ” 

“ We have some friends here ,” replied Mr. Winkle ,' and I 
should not like to leave them to-night. Perhaps you and your 
friends will join us at the Bull.” 

“ With great pleasure ,” said the little doctor ; “ will ten o’clock 
be too late to look in for half an hour?” 

“ Oh dear, no ,” said Mr. Winkle. “ I shall be most happy to 
introduce you to my friends, Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Tupman.” 

“It will give me great pleasure, I am sure,” replied Doctor 
Slammer, little suspecting who Mr. Tupman was. 

“ You will be sure to come?” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ Oh certainly.” 

By this time they had reached the road. Cordial farewells were 
exchanged , and the party separated. Doctor Slammer and his 
friends repaired to the barracks , and Mr. Winkle , accompanied 
by his Mend , Mr. Snodgrass , returned to their inn. 


CHAPTER IE. 

A HEW ACQUAINTANCE. THE STROLLER’S TALE — A DISAQRKEARLE INTERRUPTION; 

AND AN UNPLEASANT RENCONTRE. 

Mr. Pickwick had felt some apprehensions in consequence of 
the unusual absence of his two friends , which their mysterious 
behaviour during the whole morning had by no means tended 
to diminish. It was , therefore , with more than ordinary pleasure 
that he rose to greet them when they again entered ; and with 
more than ordinary interest that he inquired what had occurred 
to detain them from his society. In reply to his questions on this 
point, Mr. Snodgrass was about to offer an historical account of 
the circumstances just now detailed, when be was suddenly 
checked , by observing that there were present , not only 
Mr. Tupman and tbeir stage-coach companion of the preceding 
day, but another stranger of equally singular appearance. It was 
a care-worn looking man, whosesallowface, and deeply sunken 
eyes , were rendered still more striking than nature had made 
them, by the straight black hair which hung in matted disorder 
half way down his face. His eyes were almost unnaturally bright 
and piercing; his cheek-bones were high and prominent; and 



Digitized by 


Google 


30 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

his jaws were so long and lank , that an observer would have 
supposed he was drawing the flesh of his face in , for a moment, 
by some contraction of the muscles , if his half-opened mouth and 
immoveable expression had not announced that it was his 
ordinary appearance. Round his neck he wore a green shawl , 
with the large ends straggling over his chest, and making their 
appearance occasionally, beneath the worn button-holes of his 
old waistcoat. His upper garment was a long black surtout $ and 
below it , he wore wide drab trousers, and large boots, running 
rapidly to seed. 

It was on this uncouth-looking person , that Mr. Winkle’s 
eye rested, and it was towards him that Mr. Pickwick extended 
his hand, when he said “ A friend of our friend’s here. We 
discovered this morning that our friend was connected with the 
theatre in this place , though he is not desirous to have it ge- 
nerally known , and this gentleman is a member of the same 
profession. He was about to favour us with a little anecdote 
connected with it, when you entered.” 

“ Lots of anecdote ,” said the green-coated stranger of the day 
l>efore, advancing to Mr. Winkle and speaking in a low con- 
fidential tone. “Rum fellow — does the heavy business — no 
actor — strange man — all sorts of miseries — dismal Jemmy, we 
call him on the circuit.” Mr. Winkle and Mr. Snodgrass politely 
welcomed the gentleman , elegantly designated as “Dismal 
Jemmy 5 ” and calling for brandy and water, in imitation of the 
remainder of the company, seated themselves at the table. 

“Now, sir,” said Mr. Pickwick, “will you oblige us with 
proceeding with what you were going to relate? ” 

The dismal individual took a dirty roll of paper from his pocket, 
and turning to Mr. Snodgrass, who had just taken out his note- 
book , said in a hollow voice , perfectly in keeping with his 
outward man — “Are you the poet?” 

“I — I do a little in that way,” replied Mr. Snodgrass, rather 
taken aback by the abruptness of the question. 

“Ah! poetry makes life, what lights and music do the stage. 
Strip the one of its false embellishments , and the other of its 
illusions , and what is there real in either, to live or care for? ” 

“ Very true, sir,” replied Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ To be before the footlights,” continued the dismal man , “ is 
like sitting at a grand , court show, and admiring the silken dresses 
of the gaudy throng — to be behind them , is to be the people 
who make that finery, uncared for and unknown , and left to 
sink or swim , to starve or live , as fortune wills it.” 

“Certainly,” said Mr. Snodgrass : for the sunken eye of the 
dismal man rested on him , and he felt it necessary to say 
something. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 31 

“Go on, Jemmy,” said the Spanish traveller, “like black- 
eyed Susan — all in the Downs — no croaking — speak out — 
look lively. ” 

“ Will you make another glass before you begin , sir?” said 
Mr. Pickwick. 

The dismal man took the hint, and having mixed a glass of" 
brandy and water, and slowly swallowed half of it , opened the 
roll of paper and proceeded , partly to read, and partly to relate , 
the following incident, which we find recorded on the Transac- 
tions of the Qub , as “ The Stroller’s Tale.” 


CHAPTER IV. 

THE STROLLER’S TALE. 

44 There is nothing of the marvellous in what I am going to 
relate ,” said the dismal man ; “ there is nothing even uncommon 
in it. Want and sickness are too common in many stations of 
life , to deserve more notice than is usually bestowed on the most^'- 
ordinary vicissitudes of human nature. I have thrown these few 
nofes together, because the subject of them was well known to 
me for many years. I traced his progress downwards, step by 
step , until at last he reached that excess of destitution from 
which he never rose again. 

44 The man of whom I speak was a low pantomime actor; and , 
like many people of his class, an habitual*drunkard. In his better 
days , before he had become enfeebled by dissipation and ema- 
ciated by disease, he had been in the receipt of a good salary, 
which , if he had been careful and prudent , he might have con- 
tinued to receive for some years — not many ; because these men 
either die early, or, by unnaturally taxing their bodily energies , 
lose, prematurely, those physical powers on which alone they 
can depend for subsistence. His besetting sin gained so fast upon 
him, however, that it was found impossible to employ him in the 
situations in which he really was useful to the theatre. The 
public-house had a fascination for him which he could not resist. 
Neglected disease and hopeless poverty were as certain to be his 
portion as death jtself, if he persevered in the same course; yet 
he did persevere , and the result may be guessed. He could ob- 
tain no engagement, and he wanted bread. 

44 Everybody who is at all acquainted with theatrical matters , 
knows what a host of shabby, poverty-stricken men , hang about 
the stage of a large establishment — not regularly engaged actors, 
but ballet people , procession men , tumblers , and so forth , who 
are taken on during the run of a pantomime , or an Easter piece, 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



32 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

and are then, discharged ,,yptil the flf^ipqtion of some heavy 
spec&de occasipns a new demand, fpr their, services. To this 
mode of life the man was compelled to resort*, and taking the 
chair every night , at some low theatrical bouse , at once put him 
in possession of a few more shillings weekly., and enabled him to 
gratify his old propensity. Even this resource shortly failed him ; 
his irregularities were too great to admit of his earning the 
wretched pittance he might thus have procured , and he was 
actually reduced to a state bordering on starvation, only pro- 
curing a trifle occasionally by borrowing it of some old compa- 
nion , or by obtaining an appearance at one or other of the 
commonest of the minor theatres $ and when he did earn any- 
thing, it was spent in the old way. 

“ About this time, and when he had been existing for upwards 
of a year no one knew how, I had a short engagement at one of 
the theatres on the Surrey side of the water, and here I saw this 
man , whom I had lost sight of for some time 5 for I had been 
travelling in the provinces , and he had been skulking in the lanes 
and alleys of London. I was dressed to leave the house, and 
was crossing the stage on my way out, when he tapped me on 
the shoulder. Never shall I forget the repulsive sight that met 
my eye when I turned round. He was dressed for the panto- 
mime , in all the absurdity of a clown’s costume. The spectral 
figures in the Dance of Death , the most frightful shapes that the j 
ablest painter ever portrayed on canvas, never presented an ap- 
pearance half so ghastly. His bloated body and shrunken legs — 
their deformity enhanced a hundred-fold by the fantastic dress 
— the glassy eyes, contrasting fearfully with the thick white 
paint with which the face was besmeared ; the grotesquely-orna- 
mented head, trembling with paralysis, and the long skinny 
hands , rubbed with white chalk — all gave him a hideous and 
unnatural appearance , of which no description could convey an 
adequate idea , and which , to this day, I shudder to think of. 
His voice was hollow and tremulous , as he took me aside , and 
in broken words recounted a long catalogue of sickness and pri- 
vations , terminating , as usual , with an urgent request for the 
loan of a trifling sum of money. I put a few shillings in his hand , 
and , as I turned away, I heard the roar of laughter which, fol- 
lowed his first tumble on to the stage. 

“ A few nights afterwards , a boy put a dirty scrap ofpap'er in 
my hand, on which were scrawled a few words in pencil, ipti- 
mating that the man was dangerously ill , andt begging ipe x after 
the performance , to'kee lodgings in some street— I 

forget the naihe W it ndw great distance frdftf the 

theatre. I ptomised ’to Sbinply.^as sbon as 1 could get ayjfay; 
and , after the curtain fell , sallied forth on my melancholy e£rpncL 


Digitized 


id by Google 




OF THE PIC&WICK CLUB. 33 

“ It was late , for I bad been playing in the last piece; and, as 
it was a benefit night, the performances had been protracted to 
an unusual length. It was a dark cold night, with a chill damp 
wind , which blew the rain heavily against the windows and 
house-fronts. Pools of water had collected in the narrow and 
little-frequented streets , and as many of the thinly-scattered oil- 
lamps had been blown out by the violence of the wind , the walk 
was not only a comfortless , but most uncertain one. I had for- 
tunately taken the right course, however, and succeeded, after 
a little difficulty, in finding the house to which I had been direct- 
ed— a coal shed, with one story above it, in the back room of 
which lay the object of my search. 

“ A wretched-looking woman, the man’s wife, met me on the 
stairs , and , telling me that he had just fallen into a kind of doze, 
led me softly in , and placed a chair for me at the bed-side. The 
sick man was lying with his face turned towards the wall ; and 
as he took no heed of my presence, I had leisure to observe the 
place in which I found myself. 

“ He was lying on an old bedstead , which turned up during 
the day. The tattered remains of a checked curtain were drawn 
round the bed’s head, to exclude the wind, which, however, 
made its way into the comfortless room through the numerous 
chinks in the door, and blew it to and fro every instant. There 
was a low cinder fire in a rusty unfixed grate ; and an old three- 
cornered stained table, with some medicine-bottles, a broken 
glass, and a few other domestic articles, was drawn out before 
it. A little child was sleeping on a temporary bed which had 
been made for it on the floor, and the woman sat on a chair by 
its side. There were a couple of shelves, with a few plates and 
Cups and saucers ; and a pair of stage shoes and a couple of foils 
hung beneath them. With the exception of little heaps of rags 
and bundles which had been carelessly thrown into the corners 
of the room , these were the only things in the apartment. 

“ I had had time to note these little particulars , and to mark 
the heavy breathing and feverish startings of the sick man , be- 
fore he was aware of my presence. In his restless attempts to 
procure some easy resting-place for his head , he tossed his hand 
out. of the bed , and it fell on mine. He started up , and stared 
eagerly in my face. 

“ ‘Mr. Hutley, John,’ said his wife; ‘ Mr. Hutley, that you 
seat for to-nigt^ you know.’ 

“ ‘ Ah!’ said me invalid , passing his hand across his forehead ; 
‘Hutley — Hutley — let me see.’ He seemed endeavouring to 
collect his thoughts for a few seconds , and then grasping me 
tightly by the wrist, said, ‘ Don’t leave me — don’t leave me, 
old fellow, pie’ll murder me; I know she will.’ 

i. 3 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



34 POSTHUHOl/S PAPERS 

44 * Has he been long so ? ’ said I , addressing his weeping wife. 

“ ‘ Since yesterday night ,’ she replied. ‘ John , John , don’t 
you know me?’ 

“ ‘ Don’t let her eome near me ,’ said the man , with a shud- 
der, as she stooped over him. ‘ Drive her away •, I can’t bear her 
near me.’ He stared wildly at her, with a look of deadly appre- 
hension , and then whispered in my ear, 4 I beat her, Jem I beat 
her yesterday, and many times before. I have starved her, and 
the boy too 5 and now I am weak and helpless , Jem , she’ll mur- 
der me for it 5 1 know she will. If you’d seen her cry, as I have, 
you’d know it too. Keep her off.’ He relaxed his grasp , and 
sunk back exhausted on the pillow. 

“ I knew but too well what all this meant. If I could have en- 
tertained any doubt of it, for an instant, one glance at the 
woman’s pale face and wasted form would have sufficiently ex- 
plained the real state of the case. ‘ You had better stand aside 
said I to the poor creature. ‘ You can do him no good. Perhaps 
he will be calmer, if.he does not see you.’ She retired out of the 
man’s sight. He opfened his eyes , after a few seconds , and look- 
ed anxiously round. 

“ 4 Is she gone?’ he eagerly inquired, 

“ ‘ Ye6 — yes ,’ said I •, ‘ she shall not hurt you.’ 

“ ‘ I’ll tell you what , Jem ,’ said the man , in a low voice , 4 she 
does hurt me. There’s something in her eyes wakes such a dread- 
ful fear in my heart, that it drives me mad. All last night, her 
large staring eyes aifd pale face were elose to mine •, wherever I 
turned , they turned *, and whenever I started up from my sleep , 
she was at the bed-side looking at roe.’ He drew me closer to 
him , as he said in a deep , alarmed whisper — 4 Jem , she must 
be an evil spirit — a devil ! Hush! 1 know she is. If she had 
been a woman , she would have died long ago. No woman could 
have borne what she has.’ 

44 1 sickened at the thought of the long course of cruelty and 
neglect which must have occurred to produce such an impres- 
sion on such a man. I could say nothing in reply ; for who could 
offer hope , or consolation , to the abject being before me ? 

44 1 sat there for upwards of two hours, during which time 
he tossed about , murmuring exclamations of pain or impatience, 
restlessly throwing his arms here and there , and turning con- 
stantly from side to side. At length he fell into that state of 
partial unconsciousness , in which the mind wanders uneasily 
from scene to scene, and from place to place , Without the con- 
trol of reason , but still without being able do divest itself of an 
indescribable sense of present suffering. Finding from his in- 
coherent wanderings that this was the case , and knowing that 
in all probability the fever would not grow immed^tely worse , 


Digitized by GoO^jlC 
• 





OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 35 

1 left him, promising his miserable wife that I would repeat my 
visit next evening , and, if necessary, sit up with the patient 
during the night. 

“ I kept my promise. The last four and twenty hours had 
produced a frightful alteration. The eyes, though deeply sunk 
and heavy, shone with a lustre , frightful to behold. The lips 
were parched, and cracked in many places; the dry bard -skin 
glowed with a burning heat , and there was an almost unearthly 
air of wild anxiety in the man’s face , indicating even more 
strongly the ravages of the disease. The fever was at its height 

“ I took the seat I had occupied the night before , and there I 
sat for hours , listening to sounds which must strike deep to the 
heart of the most callous among human beings — the awful 
ravings of a dying man. From what I had heard of the medical 
attendant’s opinion, I knew there was no hope for him : I was 
sitting by his death-bed. I saw the wasted limbs which , a few 
hours before , bad been distorted for the amusement of a 
boisterous gallery, writhing under the tortures of a burning fever 
— I heard the clown’s shrill laugh , blending with the low mur- 
murings of the dying man. 

“ It is a touching thing to hear the mind reverting to the or- 
dinary occupations and pursuits of health , when the body lies 
before you weak and helpless ; but when those occupations are 
of a character the most strongly opposed to any thing we asso- 
ciate with grave or solemn ideas, the impression produced is in- 
finitely more powerful. The theatre, and the public-house, 
were the chief themes of the wretched man’s wanderings. It 
was evening, he fancied; he had a part to play that night; it 
was late , and he must leave home instantly. Why did they hold 
him, and prevent his going — he should lose the money — he 
must go. No! they would not let him. He bid his face in his 
burning hands, and feebly bemoaned his own weakness, and 
the cruelty of his persecutors. A short pause, and he shouted 
out arfew doggerel rhymes — the laBthe had ever learnt. He rose 
in bed , drew up his withered limbs ; and rolled about in uncouth 
positions ; he was acting— he was at the theatre. A minute’s 
silence , and he murmured the burden of some roaring song. He 
had -reached the old house at last ; how hot the room was. He 
had been ill; very ill , but he was well now, and happy. Fill up 
his gltas. Who wdsthat, that dashed it from his bps? It was the 
'game persecutor that had followed him before. He fell back upon 
his piUth*, 1 afoFmoandd aknidJ ■ A i Bhori i period of oblivion., and 
fcowaB Wabderlng through' a'tediods mane- of low- arched rooms 

so 'low, 'somdtimds , that' bo-mo^creep upon his .bands and 
knees to make ’his way - ailing ; it wns close and dark , and every 
way he turned', some obstacle impeded his progress. There 


Digitized by 


Google 



36 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

were insects too , hideous crawling things , with eyes that stared 
upon him , and filled the very air around : glistening horribly 
amidst the thick darkness of the place. The walls and ceiling 
were alive with reptiles — the vault expanded to an enormous 
size — frightful figures flitted to and fro — and the faces of men 
he knew, rendered hideous by gibing and mouthing , peered out 
from among them ; they were searing him with heated irons , 
and binding his head with cords till the blood started; and hd 
struggled madly for life. 

“At the close of one of these paroxysms, when I had with 
great difficulty held him down in his bed , he sank into what 
appeared to be a slumber. Overpowered with watching and 
exertion , I had closed my eyes for a few minutes, when I felt a 
violent clutch on my shoulder. I awoke instantly. He had raised 
himself up, so as to seat himself in bed — a dreadful change had 
come over his face, but consciousness had returned , for he evi- 
dently knew me. The child who had been long since disturbed 
by his ravings , rose from its little bed , and ran towards its 
father, screaming with fright— the mother hastily caught it in 
her arms , lest he should injure it in the violence of his insanity : 
but, terrified by the alteration of his features , stood transfixed 
by the bed-side. He grasped my shoulder convulsively, and , 
striking his breast with the other hand , made a desperate attempt 
to articulate. It was unavailing — he extended his arm towards 
them , and made another violent effort. There was a rattling 
noise in the throat — a glare of the eye — a short stifled groan 
— and he fell back — dead ! ” 


It would afford us the highest gratification to be enabled to 
record Mr. Pickwick’s opinion of the foregoing anecdote. We 
have little doubt that we should have been enabled to present it 
to our readers , but for a most unfortunate occurrence. 

Mr. Pickwick had replaced on the table the glass which, 
during the last few sentences of the tale , he had retained in his 
hand ; and had just made up his mind to speak — indeed , we 
have the authority of Mr. Snodgrass’s note-book for stating, 
that he had actually opened his mouth — when the waiter en- 
tered the room , and said — 

“ Some gentlemen , sir.” 

It has been conjectured that Mr. Pickwick was on the point 
of delivering some remarks which wpuld have enlightened the 
world, if not the Thames , when he was thus interrupted : for 
he gazPd sternly on the waiters countenance , and then looked 
round on the company generally, as if seeking for information 
relative to the new comers. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 

“ Oh ! ” said Mr. Winkle , rising , “ some friends of mine — 
show them in. Very pleasant fellows,” added Mr. Winkle, after 
the waiter had retired — “ Officers of the 97 th, whose acquain- 
tance I made rather oddly thip morning. You will like them very 
much.” 

Mr. Pickwick’s equanimity was at once restored. The waiter 
returned , and ushered three gentlemen into the room. 

“Lieutenant Tappleton,” said Mr. Winkle, “Lieutenant 
Tappleton, Mr. Pickwick — Doctor Payne, Mr. Picwick — JVIr. 
Snodgrass, you have seen before : my friend Mr. Tuppnan, 
Doctor Payne — Doctor Slammer, Mr. Pickwick — Mr. Tup- 
man , Doctor Slam — ” ,, 

Here Mr. Winkle suddenly paused \ for strong emotion was 
visible on the countenance both of Mr. Tupman and the doctor. 

“ I have met this gentleman before,” said the doctor, with 
marked emphasis. 

“ Indeed ! ” said Mr. Winkle. 

“ And — and that person, too, if I am not mistaken,” said the 
doctor, bestowing a scrutinizing glance on the green-coated 
stranger. “ I think I gave that person a very pressing invitation 
last night, which he thought proper to decline.” Saying which, 
the doctor scowled magnanimously on the stranger, and whis- 
pered his friend Lieutenant Tappleton. 

“ You don’t say so,” said that gentleman , at the conclusion 
of the whisper. 

“ I do, indeed,” replied Doctor Slammer. 

“ You are bound to kick him on the spot,” murmured the 
owner of the camp-stool , with great importance. 

“ Do be quiet, Payne,” interposed the lieutenant. “Will 
you allow me to ask you, sir,” he said , addressing Mr. Pick- 
wick, who was considerably mystified by this very impolite by- 
play — “ Wfll you allow me to ask you, sir, whether that person 
belongs to your party? ” 

“ No, sir,” replied Mr. Pickwick, “ he is a guest of ours.” 

“ He is a member of your club, or I am mistaken?” said the 
lieutenant , inquiringly. 

“ Certainly not,” responded Mr. Pickwick. 

“ And never wears your club-button?” said the lieutenant. 

“ No — never! ” replied the astonished Mr. Pickwick. 

Lieutenant Tappleton turned round to his friend Doctor 
Slammer, with a scarcely perceptible sl^rug of the shoulder, as 
if implying some doubt or the accuracy of his recollection. The 
doctor looked wrathful , but confounded \ and Mr. Payne gazed 
with a ferocious aspect on the beaming countenance of the un- 
conscious Picwick. 

“ Sir,” said the doctor, suddenly addressing Mr. Tupman, 


Digitized by CjOOQle 



38 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

in a tone which made that gentleman start as perceptibly as if a 
pin had been cunningly inserted in the calf of his leg — “ you 
were at the ball here , last night? ” 

Mr. Tupman gasped a faint affirmative ; looking very hard at 
Mr. Pickwick all the while. 

“ That person was your companion,” said the doctor, point- 
ing to the still unmoved stranger. 

Mr. Tupman admitted the fact. 

“ Now, sir,” said the doctor to 1 the stranger, “ I ask you once 
agdfh, in the presence of these gentlemen, whether you choose 
to $ve me your card, and to receive the treatment of a gentle- 
man ; or whether you impose upon roe the necessity of person- 
ally chsytisihg you on the spot? 1 ’* 

w StAy, sir,” said Mr. Pickwick, “ I really cannot allow this 
matter to go any further without some explanation. Tupman, 
recount the circumstances.” 

Mr. Tupman , thus solemnly adjured , stated the case in a few 
words ; touched slightly on the borrowing of the coat ; expatiated 
lately On its having been done “ after dinner ; " wound up with 
a little penitence on his own account ; and left the stranger to 
clear himself as he best could. 

He was apparently about to proceed to do so, when Lieu- 
tenant Tappleton, who had been eyeing him with great curiosity, 
said with considerable scorn — “ Haven’t I seen you at the 
theatre, sir?” 

“Certainly,” replied the unabashed stranger. 

“ He is a strolling actor,” said the lieutenant, contemptuously : 
turning to Dr. Slammer — “ He acts in the piece that the officers 
of the 52nd get up at the Rochester theatre to-morrow night. 
You cannot proceed in this affair, Slammer — impossible! ” 

“ Quite !” said the dignified Payne. 

“ Sorry to have placed you in this disagreeable situation,” said 
Lieutenant Tappleton , addressing Mr. Pickwick ; “ allow me to 
suggest, that the best way of avoiding a recurrence of such 
scenes in future , will be to be more select in the choice of your 
companions. Good evening, sir!” and the lieutenant bounced 
out of the room. 

“ And allow me to say, sir,” said the irascible Dootor Payne , 
“ that if I had been Tappleton, or if I had been Slammer, I 
would have pulled your nose , sir, and the nose of every man in 
this company. I would, sir, — every man. Payne is my name, 
sir — Doctor Payne of the 43rd. Good evening, sir.” Having 
concluded this speech , and uttered the three last words in a loud 
key, he stalked majestically after his friend , closely followed by 
Doctor Slammer, who said nothing , but contented himself by 
withering the company with a look. 


Digitized by 


Google 



or THE PICKWICK CLUB. 89 

Rising rage and extreme bewilderment had swelled the noble 
breast of Mr. Pickwick, almost to the bursting of his waistcoat, 
during the delivery of the above defiance. He stood transfixed 
to the spot, gazing on vacancy. The closing of the door recalled 
him to himself. He rushed forward with fury in his looks, and 
lire in his eye. His hand was upon the lock of the door-, in 
another instant it would have been on the throat of Doctor 
Payne of the 43rd , had not Mr. Snodgrass seized his revered 
leader by the coat tail , and dragged him backwards. 

“Restrain him,” cried Mr. Snodgrass, “ Winkle , Tupman 
— he must not peril his distinguished life in such a cause as this.” 

“ Let me go,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Hold him tight ,” shouted Mr. Snodgrass ; and by the united 
efforts of the whole company, Mr. Pickwick was forced into an 
arm-chair. 

“Leave him alone,” said the green-coated stranger— “ brandy 
and water — jolly old gentleman — lots of pluck — swallow this 
— ah! — capital stuff.” Having previously tested the virtues of 
a bumper, which had been mixed by the dismal man, the stranger 
applied the glass to Mr. Pickwick’s mouth ; and the remainder 
of its contents rapidly disappeared. 

There was a short pause ; the brandy and water had done Hs 
work 5 the amiable countenance of Mr. Pickwick was fart reco- 
vering its customary expression. 

“They are not worth your notice,” said the dismal man. 

“ You are right, sir,” replied Mr. Pickwick , “ they are not 
I am ashamed to have been betrayed into this warmth of feeling. 
Draw your chair up to the table,. sir.” 

The dismal man readily complied : a circle was again formed 
round the table , and harmony once more prevailed. Some lin- 
gering irritability appeared to find a resting place in Mr. Winkle’s 
bosom , occasioned possibly by the temporary abstraction of his 
coat — though it is scarcely reasonable to suppose, that so slight 
a circumstance can have excited even a passing feeling of anger 
in a Pickwickian breast. With this exception , their good humour 
was completely restored $ and the evening concluded with the 
conviviality with which it had begun. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


40 

Uw u * M = > * ' )t * ‘tfj.* O, 14 Sl(l j / ! J > / t 1 * >><.?* 

ail 1 *!*'*- m‘<: , f)fiJ tif H<H> "t>// , . 

*ijj f <a bil to. r'/i'iiO'):-; Oku: i 

* ‘■■iiiJi _ jfi ;CJiAJRT , E4& } Vtfl HO tn*if 

b‘- v ’ .: • . ! J i // > i/‘i L;U> 1»| Altaian "J,*> ■-■ 

^ Ann W^0UAC-nHOM3fl|W J, Al$, ^ .UMWV* TP *« 

■1‘JlUGlw. - ' > ()i * 

bilft , ^ u : ; ; M - -Vi ■: 1 

j:iMAjjnrauthor8 entertain .natonly afoolish, buta really dis- 
hanflstTdbjection , to acknowledge the sources from whence they, 
dmre anucb valuahle information. We have jaosucfa feeling. 
W4 are/merety endeavouring todischargein an upright manner, 
tbe iwaponsible duties of our editorial functions ; and whatever 
ambidoB > wemight have felt under other circumstances , to la; 
dakn4Qthe authorship of these adventures, a regard for truth 
forbids us to do more, than daim the merit of their judicious 
arrangement , and impartial narration. The Pickwick papers are 
euv> New River Head ; and we may be compared to the New 
River Company. The labours of others have raised for us, an 
immense reservoir of important facts. We merely lay them on,, 
and communicate them , in a clear and gentle stream , through 
the medium of these numbers, to a world thirsting for Pick** 
wickian knowledge. 

* Acting in this spirit, and resolutely proceeding on our deter- 
mination to avow our obligations to the authorities we have con- 
sulted, we frankly say, that to the note-book of Mr. Snodgrass 
are we indebted for the particulars recorded in this, and. the 
succeeding: chapter — particulars which , now that we have dis- 
burdened our conscience, we shall proceed to detail without 
further comment. 

■ The whole population of Rochester and the adjoining towns, 
rose from their beds at an early hour of the following morning, 
in a state qf the utmost bustle and excitement A grand review 
was to take place upon the lines. The manoeuvres of half a dozen 
regiments were to be inspected by the eagle eye of the com- 
mandert-in-chief; temporary fortifications had been erected, the 
citadel was to be attacked and taken, and a mine was to be 
sprung; 

Mr. Pickwick was , as our readers may have gathered from 
the slight extract we gave from his description of Chatham , an 
Enthusiastic admirer of the arrays Nothing could havb been more 
delightful to him—* nothing could hava hacmonized so well with 
the peculiar feehngiof (each i&fihis' companions — as this sight. 
Accordingly they were soap itifoof^ and walking in the direction 
of the scene of. action^ -towands which crowds of people were 
already pouring , from a variety of quarters. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. ‘ 41 

The appearance of everything on the lines , denoted that the 
approaching ceremony was one of the utmost grandeur and im- 
portance. There were sentries posted to keep the ground for the 
troops, and servants on the battfeHCMbeping places for the ladies, 
and sergeants running to and fro , with vellum covered books 
under their anus , and 1 Coto&ebBoldwv'in full' wiilitarp’UBiterm , 
on horseback , gallopping firsts to one place and then to another, 
and backing his horse among the people , and prancing , and 
carvettiag, and 1 shouting in a 'meatataimdiigtmanneiv and maMng 
himself uvery hoarse in- thei i voice y aud/rery red ini tbeirfaee , 
without any assignable cause >orro«o*i>v bate ver^ Officer* were 
running; backwards and forwards y first communicating with Co- 
lonet <Buid errand then ordering' the sergeants ^ &nd then>qusitiag 
avMayi altogether s and even the very privates themselves leaked 
from behind their .glazed stocks with an air of mysterious solem- 
nity, Which sufficiently bespoke the special naturoof thsoceasinn. 

< Mr. Pickwick and his three companions stationedithsmselves 
in the : front rank of the erowd , and patiently awaited thwcom- 
meneementof the proceedings. The throng was increasing every 
moment ; and the efforts they were compelled to meke, to<r«laun 
the position they had gained , sufficiently occupied their atten- 
tion during the two hours that ensued. At one time- there was a 
sudden pressure from behind; and then Mr. Pickwick wastjerked 
forward for several yards, with a degree of speed and elasticity 
highly inconsistent with the general-gravity of his demeanour ; at 
another <moment there was a request to “keep back ’’'from the 
front , ”aud then the butt end of a musket was either dropped 
upon Mr. Pickwick’s toe , to remind him of the demand , or 
thrust into his chest to; ensure its being complied with. Then 
some facetious gentlemen on the left, after pressing; sideways in 
a body, -and squeezing Mr. Snodgrass into the very lastextreme 
of human torture , would request to knew “ vere be roa a shovin’ 
to/’ and; when Mr. Winkle had done expressing his excessive in- 
dignation at witnessing this unprovoked assault,- $©me person 
behind would knock his hat over his eyes, and beg the favour of 
his putting bis head in his pocket. These , and other practical 
witticisms, coupled with .the unaccountable absence of Mr. 
Tupman (who had suddenly disappeared , and was nowhere to 
be found) , rendered their situation upon the whole rather more 
uncomfortable , than pleasing or desirable. 

At length that low roar of many voices ran through tliecrowd , 
which usually announces the arrival of whatever they have been 
waiting for. All eyes were turned in the direction of the sally- 
port. A few moments of eager expectation , and colQurs were 
geen fluttering gaily in the air, arms glistened brightly in the sun : 
column after column poured on to the plain. The troops halted 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



42 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

and formed 3 the word of command rung through the liue , there 
was a* 'general clash' of muskets , tas arms were presented ( and 
the commander-in-chief , attended by Colonel Bolder and nume- 
rous officers, cantered to the front. The military bands struck up 
altogether ; the horses stood -upon two legseaeh , cantered back- 
wards, and whisked their tails about in alt directions; the dogs 
barked ;themob screamed , the troops recovered , and nothing 
was to be seen on either side , as for as the eye could reach , but 
a dong perspective of red coats and white trousers, fixed and 
motionless. 

•H Mm Pickwick had been so folly occupied in foiling about , and 
dbeatangliog himself, miraculously, from between the legs of 
horses y ’that he had not enjoyed sufficient leisure to observe the 
sCSnel before him, until it assumed the appearance we have just 
dhscnlbedu • When he was at last enabled to stand firmly on his 
legs , his gratification and delight were unbounded. 

Can anything be finer, or more delightftil? ” he inquired of 
Mr. Winkle. 

fM^othing,” replied that gentleman, who had had a short 
man standing on each of his feet , for the quarter of an hour im- 
mediately preceding. 

• ‘‘ It is indeed a noble and a briHiant sight ,” said Mr. Snodgrass, 
in whose bosom a blaze of poetry was rapidly bursting forth , 
“tosed the gallant defenders of their eountry, drawn up in bril- 
lianti array before its peaceful citizens : their faces beaming— not 
with warlike ferocity, but with civilized gentleness : their eyes 
Ilashihg— not with the rude fire of rapine or revenge , but with 
the soft light of humanity and intelligence.” 

Mr. Pickwick folly entered into the spirit of this eulogium, 
but he could not exactly re-echo its terms ; for the soft light of 
intelligence burnt rather feebly in the eyes of the warriors , inas- 
much as the command “ eyes front ” had been given ; and aH the 
spectator saw before him was several thousand pair of optics , 
staring straight forward , wholly divested of any expression 
whatever. 

“ We are in a Capital situation now,” said Mr. Pickwick , look- 
ing round him. The crowd had gradually dispersed from their 
immediate vicinity, and they were nearly alone. 

“ Capital ! ” echoed both Mr. Snodgrass and Mr. Winkle. 

“ What are they doing now? "inquired Mr. Pickwick , adjust- 
ing his spectacles. ; 

“■ I— I — rather ' think (said Mb.’ Wihkfe , clanging colour 

— “ I rather think they’re gdittgW fiW.’ r 

“ Nonsense ,” saidMr. PifehWick'J hastily. 

“ I -i-I — really think they drC', ’’ urged Mr. Snodgrass, some- 
what alarmed. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF TH£ PICKWICK CLUB. 43 

“Impossible replied' MtvoEtiekwick. tHediad ‘hardily uttered 
the word^wfeeuthe -whoIehalfdeHes regiments levelled their 
muskete asifithey ,hadbut odet common object j andthat object 
the Pickwickians;, i and- burst ■ i forth ' iwiththemost avffkl-iand 
tremendous discharge., thatever shook the earth to its 1 centre , 
or an elderly gentleman offi'hi^ i - i ' • 

liVasin this toying situation , exposed to availing lire ofbktok 
cartridges, and harassedby tine operations of the military, a ftiesh 
body of whom had begun, to fattiin,<on the opposite sjcteyiliat 
Mr. Pickwick displayed that perfect coolness and self-possesdion , 
whictiare the indispensableaccojaipanimentaofagreatdiindk He 
seized Mr. Winkle by the arm, andplacing himSelf between 'that 
gentleman and Mr. Snodgrass , earnestly' beaooght them to (re- 
member that beyond the possibility of being rendereddwifby 
the; noise , there was no immediate danger to bo apprehended 
from the firing; - •! 

“ But— hat suppose some of the men should happen te have 
ball cartridges by mistake,” remonstrated Mr. Winkle, i pallid fct 
the-suppositionhewas himself conjuring up. “ I heard^some- 
thiag whistle through the air just now — sot sharp r close to 
my ear.” . '■■■■• d-.: 

“ We had better throw esrselves.oaourfacts , hadn’tiwe ? ” 
saidMr. Snodgrass. ■ ' . «.» ,b- 

“No, no— it’s.over now,” said Ma Ptekwibk; His tip-might 
quiver, and his cheek might blanch , but no expression^ fear Or 
concern escaped the. lips of that; immortal man. t •” - 

“Mr. Pickwick was fight : the firing ceased; but he had 
scarcely time to congratulate himself on the accuracy bfhis opi- 
nion, when a quick movement was visible i» the line : the hoarse 
shout of the word of command ran along it, and before either of 
the party could form a guess at the meaning of this new man- 
oeuvre, the whole of the half dozen regiments, with fixed bayo- 
nets, charged at double quick time down upon the very spot on 
which Mr. -Pickwick and his friends were stationed. • ■ 

Man is but mortal *, and there is a point beyond which human 
courage cannot extend. Mr. Pickwick gazed through his spec- 
tacles for an instant on the advancing mass; and then fairly 
turned his back and — we will not say lied; first , because it is 
an ignoble term, and, secondly, because Mr. Pickwick’s figure 
was by no means adapted for that mode of retreat — he trotted 
away, at as quicka rate as his legs would convey him ; so quickly 
indeed, that he did .qofrpejceive .the awkwardness of his situa- 
tion, to the full extent, until too date. ; o , ! 

The opposite troops^ wh<|>$p<faHiag-itehadiperptexed Mr. Pick- 
wick a few seconds before, were draws .up. to repel the mimic 
attack of the sham besiegers of the citadel ; and the consequence 




Digitized by v^.ooQle 



44 yo$T*iu 1 sjoufe paj>«hs 

was . that .JVbv.J^Qkvvjpkand, ^ two , companions- found. them- 
selves suddenly inclosed between two lines of great length ; the 
one advancing at airapld/PSfia»*Pdt the othet-firmly waiting the 

collision in Jtiostilearr^y, ^ ., i 1 n' ■ • 

' “ Hoi!*’ shouted Uie odicensiQf.the, advancing line. 

“ Get out of the way,” cripd theihfficersof the stationary one. 

‘ ‘ Where are we to gol( 0 ? ’ ’ screamed-theagi tated Pichwiekians. 
“floi^hoi— hoi,” iho/»nj|yiJ’Ofdy.! There wasa moment 
of mtertse bewilderment* q heavy tramp of footsteps ,- a 'Violent 
cdriiussjon; a smothered laugh— -tbe, half dozen regiments were 
him a thousand yards off ;#nd the spies of Mr. Pickwick’s- boot® 
MferA&eVated in air. , - 

MK Snodgrass and Mr. Winkle had each performed com- 
pulsory summerset with remarkable agility, when the first -object 
thatjtnet the eyes of the latter as he sat on the ground, staunch* 
in^' Svith a yellow silk handkerchief the stream of life which 
issued from his nose, was his venerated leader at some, distance- 
off, running after his own bat , which was gambolling playfully 
away in perspective. I •>./, 

There are very few moments in a man’s existence ,- when he; 
experiences so much ludicrous distress, or meets with so -little 
charitable commiseration , as when he is in pursuit of hiS own 
hat. A vast deal of coolness , and a peculiar degree of judgment, 
are requisite in catching a, bat. A man must nob be precipitate , 
or he runs over it : he must not rush into the opposite extreme . 
or he loses it altogether. The best way is, to keep genUy up with 
the object of pursuit , to be wary and cautious , to watch your 
opportunity well, get gradually before it, then make a rapid dive, 
seize it by the crown, and stick it firmly on your head : smiting 
pleasantly all the time, as if you thought it as good a jokeias- 
anybody else, : .> .f - ;v 

There was a fine gentle wind, and Mr. Pickwickfs hat-rolled- 
sportively before it. The wind puffed, and Mr. Pickwick puffed, 
and the hat rolled over and over as merrily as a lively porpoise in 
a strong tide; pnd on it, might have rolled, far beyond Mr. Pick- 
wick’s reach, had. pot its course been providentially stopped, (just * 
as that gentleman .was on the point of resigning it to its fete, i -v - - 
Mr. Pickwick, we say,, was- completely exhausted, and about 
to give up the ebase, w^ep the hat was blown with some violence . 
against the wheel of a carriage, which was drawn up in a line 
with half-a-dozen other -vehicles,- *op .the spot to- which hisisteps 
had heen direep^ , ^i<#Sh^bf,‘peTfleiivingi his.-advafttage-yi 
darted briskly forvy^rd ^quredhis-^ppeperty, planted it on his 
headland paused 'iq^ejfegea^ ^had^qt-been stationary 
half a minute , whep ty? hqard hiapwn-ppme eagerly pronounced 
by a .voice, which, he pt qnc# recognised as Mr. Tupmau’s, and, 




OP TUB PICKWICK CLtIB. 45 

lookingupwardSjbcbehetdiategM! WHlcri fi rfed’hfm ^ithsa'rpnse 
and pteasurei i- )<■ '•'»«! <</'J ii’rw.i*** ' 

> 1 2 n.an open ittrduekd 1 , the hoWesdfWhiehhad been taken (kit, 
the better to accommodate it to the croWdddpIace, Stood astout 
old gentleman v in ablueieoatahdbrightbuttons,' cof deroy hree- 
ches andtep booth , two •ytiang lsldifes in scarfs and feathery , a 
young gentleman apparently enamoured of one of the young la- 
dies in scarfe and' feathers ,• a'laUy of ddubtftil 'age /probably pie 
auntoftbe aforesaid, and!Mri Ttfprtian, as easy irid unconcerned 
as'M>he bai belonged to tfte'fttnriiy ftorii the first moments qfjjjg 
infancy. Fastened up behind thb‘ barouche' Was. a jiajnpej;^’ 
spacious dimensions — one of those hampers 
awakens in a ’ contemplative ittiiidyassociatiohs connected 
cohi fowls f tongue, and botdes of wine — and on the box sg j( a ' 
androd-feced boy , in a state of somnolency, whom no speculative 
obsetrcrcould have regarded for an instant without setting dowq. 
as the official dispenser of the contents of the before-men tionetj 
hamper 'when the proper time for their consumption should arrive. 

Mr. Pickwick had bestowed a hasty glance on these interest- 
ing! objects, when he was again greeted by his faithful disciple. 

f‘ Pickwick — Pickwick,” said Mr. Tupman 5 “ come up here. 
Make haste.” " • <1; >■■■-■»■ - 

frtCoipe along, sir. Pray, come up,” said the stout gentleman, 
“ Ide!' 1 — damn that boy, he’s goneto sleep again. — Joe, let 
down the steps;” Thefatbdy rolled slowly off the box, let down 
the steps 1 , ahd held the carriage door invitingly open. Mr. Snod- 
grass aiild Mr. 'Winkle came 'Op at the mOtaerit. ' 

‘<®oomft*r yOu all ,> gentlemen,” said the stout man. “Two 
maMOpand'one out. Joe, make room fee One of these gentjemeiy 
omthoibox. iNow, sir, come alongy”* and the stout gentleman 
extended his arm , and pulled first Mr. Pickwick , and then Mr. 
Sdodgrass/intO thebaboudheby main force; Mr. Wihkle mounted 
to thdl»K'j threfat boy waddled to the same perch , and fell fast 
asleep-instantty. • . 

. “Well, gentlemen,” said the stoat mail, ** very glad to see 
you; 'iKtoow 'you very well, gentlemen , though you mayn’t re- . 
member me. I spent some ev’dins at your club last winter — 
picked upJtny friend Mr. Tupman here this 'mdraifig, and very 
gladTWas toseehim.'WefflisifjendbOWareyou? You do look 

uneufemOB Well; 10 he SUVe 1 . - v i. h; ; » - . ’ 

. Mr. 1 PtekWiok' ackfiOWiediged'the'^Orirtjiiniirtit , and cordial^ 
shook handfe with the'Stout'gfcndeMahiif tU^^opf Yioo 
, “I Well/ahdlvew arefyoU/b^’M^Mnhe stOdt gentleman, ad- 
dressing' i M3K n Stfedgfft^ , toTOi p*it§fBAl' J c(fiiife^yP' Charming 
eh? Well,'thaWri^it tUfl fllkt , d / HghU , ' 3 Siiii WAwnj;e you*, sir (to 
Mr. Winkle)? Welt ‘/4 Htei>'gltt# i tO , ‘Re(tf ,, ydfi Sity ydU are well\ 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



46 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

very<gtad Ianv to be'suPp. My daughters , gentlemen — my gals 
these are; and that’s my sister, Miss Rachael Wardie. She’s a 
miss, 1 She is; and yet she ah’t a miss 1 — eh, sir— eh?” And the 
stout gentleman playfully inserted his elbow betweenthe ribs of 
Mr. Pickwick, and laughed very heartily. 

“ Lor, brother I ” said Miss Wardie , with a deprecating smile. 

*• True, true,” said the stout gentleman; “ no one can deny it. 
Gentlemen, I beg your-pardon; this is my fhiend Mr. TmndEe. 
And now you all know each other, let’s be com Portable and happy, 
and see what’s going forward; that’s what I say.” So the stout 
gentleman put on his spectacles , and Mr. Pickwick pulled out 
his glass, and everybody stood up in the carriage , and looked^ 
over somebody else’s shoulder at the evolutions of the military. 

! Astounding evolutions they were , one rank firing over the 
heads of another rank, and then running away; and then the 
other rank firing over the heads of another rank , and running 
away in their turn; and then forming squares, with officers in 
the centre; and then descending the trench on one side with 
sealing ladders, and ascending it on the other again by the same 
means; and knocking down barricades of baskets, and behaving 
in the most gallant manner possible. Then there was such a 
ramming down of the contents of enormous guns on the battery, 
withinstrument8 like magnified mops ; such a preparation before 
they were let off, and such an awful noise when they did go, 
that the air resounded with the screams of ladies. The young 
Miss Wardles were so frightened, that Mr. Trundle was actually 
obliged to hold one of them up in the carriage, while Mr. Snod- 
grass supported the other, and Mr. Wardle’s sister suffered under 
such a dread foi state of nervous alarm, that Mr. Tupman found 
it indispensably necessary to put his arm round her w<aist , to 
keep her up at all. Everybody was excited , except the fat boy, 
and he slept as soundly as if the roaring of cannon were his or- 
dinary lullaby. 

“ Joe , Joe! ” said the stout gentleman , when the citadel was 
taken, and the besiegers and besieged sat down to dinner. “ Damn 
that boy, he’s gone to sleep again. Be good enough to pinch 
him , sir — in the leg , if you please; nothing else wakes hito — . 
thank you. Undo the hamper, Joe.” ‘ 

The fat boy, who had been effectually roused by the compres- 
sion of a portion of his leg , between the finger and thumb of 
Mr. df inkle, rolled off the box once again, and proceeded to un- 
pack the hamper^'WSth mot>ei expedition than ; could‘have b6en 
expected from his previous inkctiwty, 

‘‘ Now* we mnsi'dit cldSeyVwkidthestoalngeutlemanj^After a 
great many jokes about squeezing the fadltt’ sfoeves j and a va&t 
quantity of Mushing -at 'suildry jdcose proposals, thatthe ladies 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 47 

should sit in thegentlemente laps, the whole party were .stewed 
down in the barouche ; and the stout gentleman proceeded to 
hand the things from the tat boy ( who had mounted up 'behind 
for the purpose) into the carriage. 

“Now, Joe, knives and forks.” The knives and forks Were 
handed in, and the ladies and gentlemen inside, and Mr. Winkle 
^ on the box, were each furnished with those useful implements. 

“ Plates, Joe, plates.” A similar process employed in tbei dis- 
tribution pif the crockery. ■ - , . , . . 

“ Now, Joe , the fowls. Damn that boy ; hete gone- to sleep 
again. Joe! Joe!” (Sundry taps on the head with a stick, and. 
the fat boy, with some difficulty, roused from his lethargy.') 
“ Come, hand in the eatables.” ■ <•»«>• 

, There was something in the sound of the last word, which 
roused the unctuous boy. He jumped up; and the leaden e^esy 
which twinkled behind his mountainous cheeks, leered horribly 
upon the food as he unpacked it from the basket. 

“ Now, make haste ,” said Mr. Wardle ; for the fat boy was 
hanging- fondly over a capon , which he seemed wholly unable 
to part with. The boy sighed deeply, and , bestowing an ardent 
gaze upon its plumpness, unwillingly consigned it to his master. 

“That's right — look sharp. Now the tongue — now the pi- 
geon-pie. Take care of that veal and ham — mind the lobsters 
— take the salad out of the cloth — give me the dressing.” Such 
were the hurried orders which issued from the lips of . Mr. 
Wardle, as he handed in the different articles described , and 
placed dishes in everybody’s hands, and on everybody’s knees , 
in endless number. 

“ Now, ain’t this capital ? ” inquired that jolly personage, when 
the work of destruction bad commenced. . . . > 

_ “^Capital!” said Mr. Winkle, who was carving a fowl on 
the box. • ■ .■■■•■ ■ • : •>' 't ' 

“ Glass of wine ? ” Mb - 

M With the greatest pleasure.” 

“ You’d better have a bottle to yourself up there, hadn’t yon?” 

“ You’re very good.” 

“Joe!” 

“ Yes, sir.” ( He wasn’t asleep this time, having just succeeded 
in abstracting a veal patty. ) 

“ Bottle of wine to the gentleman on the box. Glad to see 
you , sir.” ' ■ * ’ 

“Thankee.” Mr. Winkle emptied his glass, and placed the 
bottleon the coach-box, by hisiside^ - 1. -.■.)/• 

“ Will you permit me "to- have the pleasure, sir?” 7 said 
Mr. Trundle to Mr. Winkle.* ■*' '< - *i r. 

“ With great pleasure , ” replied Mr. Winkle do Mr. Trundle; 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



48 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS ■ 

and then the two gentlemen took wine , after which they took a 
glass of wine round , ladies and all. 

“How dear Emily is flirting with the strange gentleman;” 
whispered the spinster aunt , with true spinster-aunt-like envy, 
to her brother Mr. Wardle. H 

“ Oh ! I don’t know,” said the jolly old gentleman ; “ all very 
natural, I dare say — nothing unusuali' Mr. Pickwick, sonle 
wine, sir?” Mr. Pickwick, who had -beeti' deeply investigating 
the interior of the pigeon-pie , readily assented. ^ # 

“ Emily, my dear,” said the spinsteraunt , with a patronising 
air, “ don’t talk so loud , love.” - 

“Lor, aunt!” ' » 

“ Aunt and the little old gentleman want to have it all to them- 
selves , I think ,” whispered Miss Isabella Wardle to her sister 
Emily. The young ladies laughed very heartily, and the old one 
tried to look amiable , but couldn’t manage it. 

“ Young girls have such spirits! ” said Miss Wardle to Mr. 
Tupman , with an air of gentle commiseration , as if animal spi- 
rits were contraband , and their possession without a permit, a 
high crime and misdemeanour. 

“ Oh , they have,” replied Mr. Tupman , not exactly making 
the sort of reply that was expected from him. “ It’s quite de- 
lightful.” 

“Hem!” said Miss Wardle, rather dubiously. 

“ Will you permit me ,” said Mr. Tupman , in his blandest 
manner, touching the enchanting Rachael’s wrist with one band, 
and gently elevating the bottle with the other. “Will you 
permit me?” 

“ Oh, sir!” Mr. Tupman looked most impressive; and Rachael 
expressed her fear that more guns were going off, in which case, 
of course , she would have required support again. 

“Do you think my dear nieces pretty?” whispered their af- 
fectionate aunt to Mr. Tupman. 

“ I should , if their aunt wasn’t here,” replied the ready Pick- 
wickian , with a passionate glance. 

“ Oh , you naughty man — but really, if their complexions 
were a little better, don’t you think they would be nice-looking 
girls — by candle-light?” 

“Yes; I think they would ;” said Mr. Tupman, with an air 
of indifference. • - , Unv:. . < • 

“ Oh , youquiz-nlknow whafeyouwere goingto say.” 

“What?” inquired Mf; THpmaDjWhwhadinot precisely tnade 
uphismindtoisatyimytiiing at'aifcnnut - n . <\t- 

• r ^.You weretgoingn to say, that Isabella stoops — I know you 
were^you men are«heh«j*ervertl Wdtv*M»sl#d<fca ; it can’t 
be denied; and, certain! pyifi thesis' oneObiag* more than an- 


Digitized by 


Google 




OfTHE. PICKWICK- CLUB. '49 

other that makes a-giri taak/ugty., it sis? stooping. ' I oftenttllfoer, 
that when she gets a little olAergsh^itibe qUitefrightfuh ■ W<cH, 
you«rea-«giffilfh,i' *♦«> lihw ^-uiC -• .»,■ .cl ir i. 

Mr. l\ipraan.fcMl>ive -objection to earning the reputational so 
cheap a rate : so he looked very kfoowirig , artd 6tniled ’ Mys- 
teriously. I ;. yiii.f 'iMi . .--m: • 1 <>' •< i <1‘ > 

“ WhatasaBcastte smile!” sakt'the admiring Raehhelf'rtpde- 
clare I’m quite afraid of youJ* • - i . t* .• 

“Afrajdjofme.!” 

“Off, you can’t dieguise anytbing fpom me — I knoW'what 
that smile means , very well.” . >. ■ cwc. ,ut, 

'» “What? ” said Mr. Tupman , who had not the slightest no- 
tion himself. 

“ You mean ,” said the amiable aunt , sinking her Voiee /Stdl 
lower— “ You mean , that you don’t think Isabella’s stoopingis 
as bad as Emily’s boldness. Well, she is bold! Youcionot 
think how wretched it makes me sometimes — I’m sure I cry 
about it for hours together — my dear brother is so good , and 
so unsuspicious , that he never sees it ; if he did, I’m quite cer- 
tain it would break his heart. I wish I could think it was only 
manner — I hope it may be — ” (here the affectionate relative 
heaved. a deep sigh , and shook her head despondingly). 

“I’m sure aunt’s talking about us,” whispered MisS Emily 
Wardle to her silter — “I’m quite certain of it— shelooks so 
malicious!” 

“ Is she?” replied Isabella— “Hem! aunt j dear !” ■ 

“ Yes , my dear love ! ” 

“I’m so afraid you’ll catch cold, aunt — have a silk hand- 
kerchief to tie round your dear old head — you really should take 
care of yourself — consider your age ! ” 

However well deserved this piece of retaliation might have 
been < 4 t was as vindictive a one as could well have been resorted 
to. There is no guessing in what form of reply the aunt’s indig- 
nation would have vented itself, had not Mr. Wardle uncon- 
sciously changed the subject , by calling emphatically for Joe. 

‘ ‘ Damn that boy,” said the old gentleman, “ he’s gone to sleep 
again.” ' 

“Very extraordinary boy, that,” said Mr. Pickwick 5 “does 
he always- sleep in this way ?” ■ 

“ Sleep! ” said the old gentleman , “ he’s always asleep. Goes 
on errands fast asleep r aud snores as hewtaits at-table.” : 

odd J”(*ajdjMnBPiqh\kich/ u*.> n:. uu *< 

“ Ah , odd indeed, returned)} the add * geatleman ; “ Pmpioud 
of that, boy— wouldu’jt patJt'fc'ithlhim enanyiaceount— damme, 
he’s a natural curiorityf Here v^he-t-Joe^- take these things 
away, andopenauetbear botUetH dtyehear?” | -» >• >• 

1. 4 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



50 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

The fat boy rose , opened his eyes , swallowed the huge piece 
of pie he had been in the act of masticating when he last fell 
asleep, and slowly obeyed his master’s orders — gloating languidly 
over the remains of the feast , as he removed the plates , and 
deposited them in the hamper. The fresh bottle was produced 
and speedily emptied ; the hamper was piade fast in its old place 
— the fat boy once more mounted the 1 k>x — the spectacles and 
pocket-glass were again adjusted — and the evolutions of the 
military recommenced. There was a great fizzing anttjianging 
of guns, and starting of ladies — and then a mine was sprung , 
to the gratification of everybody — and when the mine had gone 
off, the military and the company followed its example , and 
went off too. 

“ Now, mind,” said the old gentleman, as he shook hands 
with Mr. Pickwick at the conclusion of a conversation which had 
been carried on at intervals, during the conclusion of the pro- 
ceedings — “ we shall see you all to-morrow.” 

“ Most certainly,” replied Mr. Pickwick. 

“ You have got the address?” 

“ Manor Farm , Dingley Dell ,” said Mr. Pickwick , consult- 
ing bis pocket-book. 

“ That’s it,” said the old gentleman. “ I don’t let yon off, 
mind , under a week ; and undertake that you shall see every- 
thing worth seeing. If you’ve come down for a country life, 
come to me , and I’ll give you plenty of it. Joe — damn that boy, 
he’$ gone to sleep again — Joe, help Tom put in the horses.” 

The horses were put in — the driver mounted — the fat boy 
clambered up by his side— forewells were exchanged— and the 
carriage rattled off. As the Pickwickians turned round to take a 
last glimpse of it , the setting sun cast a rich glow on the faces of 
their entertainers , and fell upon the form of the fat boy. His 
head was sunk upon his bosom ; and he slumbered again. 


CHAFFER VI. 

A SHORT ONE — SHOWING, AMONG OTHER MATTERS , HOW MR. PICKWICK UNDERTOOK 
TO DRIVE, AND MR. WINKLE TO RIDE; AND HOW THEY BOTH DID IT. 

Bright and pleasant was the sky, balmy the air, and beauti- 
ful the appearance of every object around, as Mr. Pickwick leant 
over the balustrades of Rochester Bridge , contemplating nature, 
and waiting for breakfast. The scene was indeed one, which 
might well have charmed a far less reflective mind , than that to , 
which it was presented. 

On the left of (he spectator Jay theruined wall, broken in many 
places , and in some , overhanging the narrow beach below in 


* 


Digitized by 


Google 





OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 51 

rude and heavy masses. Huge knots of sea-weed hung upon the 
jagged and pointed stones , trembling in every breath of wind ; 
and the green ivy clung mournfully round the dark and ruined 
battlements. Behind it rose the ancient castle , its towers roof- 
less, and its massive walls crumbling away, but telling us proud- 
ly of its old might and strength , as when, seven hundred years 
ago , it rang with the dash of arms , or resounded with the noise 
of feasting and revelry. On either side , the banks of the Med- 
way, covered with corn-fields and pastures , with here and there 
a windmill , or a distant church , stretched away as far as the eye 
could see, presenting a rich and varied landscape, rendered 
more beautiful by the changing shadows which passed swiftly 
across it, as the thin and half-formed clouds skimmed away in 
the light of the morning sun. The river, reflecting the dear blue 
of the 'sky, glistened and sparkled as it flowed noiselessly on ; 
and the oars of the fish£r“hien dipped into the water with a clear 
and liquid sound , as their heavy but picturesque boats glided 
do wly down the stream. 

Mr. Pickwick was roused from the agreeable reverie into which 
he had been led by the objects before him, by a deep sigh , and 
a touch on his shoulder. He turned round : and the dismal man 
was at his side. 

“ Contemplating the scene?” inquired the dismal man. 

“ I was ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ And congratulating yourself on being up so soon ?” Mr. Pick- 
wick nodded assent. 

“ Ah! people need to rise early, to see the sun in all his 
splendour, for his brightness seldom lasts the day through. The 
morning of day and the morning of life are but too much alike.” 

“ You speak truly, sir,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ How common the saying ,” continued the dismal man , 
“ ‘ The morning’s too fine to last.’ How well might it be applied 
to our every day existence. God ! what would 1 forfeit to have 
the days of my childhood restored , or to be able to forget them 
for ever ! ” 

“ You have seen much trouble , sir,” said Mr. Pickwick, com- 
passionately. 

“ I have , said the dismal man , hurriedly •, “ I have. More 
than those who see me now would believe possible.” He paused 
for an instant , and then said , abruptly. 

“ Did it ever strike you', on such a morning as this, that 
drowning would be haphin'eSs and 1 peace ? ” 

“ God bless me i ho ! ’Replied Mr. Pickvviek, edging a little 
from the balustrade, as the possibility of the dismal man v $ tip- 
ping him <Wer; % ! ^Wry* flf eiptirtmeirt ', ' occurred to him rather 
forcibly. ' " — * "" " 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


52 

“ I have thought so,, often,” said the dismal man, without 
noticing the action. “ The calm , cool water seems to me to mur- 
mur an invitation to repose and rest. A bound , a splash , a brief 
struggle*, there is an eddy for an instant, it gradually subsides 
into a gentle ripple •, the waters have closed above your head , 
and the world has closed upon your miseries and misfortunes 
for ever.” The sunken eye of the dismal man flashed brightly 
as he spoke, but the momentary excitement quickly subsided; 
and he turned calmly away, as he said — 

“ There — enough of that. I wished to see you on another 
subject. You invited me to read that paper, the night before 
last , and listened attentively while I did so.” 

“ I did ,” replied Mr. Pickwick ; “ and I certainly thought — ” 

“ I asked for no opinion ,” said the dismal man , interrupting 
him , “ and I want none. You are travelling for amusement and 
instruction. Suppose I forwarded you a curious manuscript — 
observe , not curious because wild or improbable , but curious 
as a leaf from the romance of real life. Would you communicate 
it to the club , of which you have spoken so frequently ? ” 

“ Certainly,” replied Mr. Pickwick, “ if you wished it; and 
it would be entered on their Transactions.” 

“ You shall have it,” replied the dismal man. “ Your ad- 
dress? ” and , Mr. Pickwick having communicated their probable 
route , the dismal man carefully noted it down in a greasy pocket- 
book , and , resisting Mr. Pickwick’s pressing invitation to break- 
fast , left that gentleman at his inn , and walked slowly away. 

Mr. Pickwick found that his three companions had risen , and 
were waiting his arrival to commence breakfast, which was 
ready laid in tempting display. They sat down to the meal ; and 
broiled ham , eggs , tea , coffee , and sundries , began to disap- 
* pear with a rapidity which at once bore testimony to the excel- 
lence of the fare , and the appetites of its consumers. 

“ Now, about Manor Farm” said Mr. Pickwick. “ How shall 
we go?” 

“ We had better consult the waiter, perhaps,” said Mr. Tup- 
man ; and the waiter was summoned accordingly. 

“ Dingley Dell , gentlemen — fifteen miles , gentlemen — cross 
road — post-chaise , sir ? ” 

“ Post-chaise won’t hold more than two ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ True, sir — beg your pardon, sir. — Very nice four-wheel 
chaise , sir — seat for two behind — one in front for the gentleman 
that drives-oh ! beg your pardon , sir^that’ll only hold three.” 

“ What’s to be done?” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ Perhaps one of the gentlemen like to ride, sir,” suggested 
the waiter, looking towards Mr. Winkle; “ very good saddle 



Digitized by 


Google 





OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 53 

horses, sir — any of Mr. Wardle’s men coining to Rochester, 
bring ’em back, sir.” 

“ The very thing ,” said Mr. Pickwick. “ Winkle , will you 
go on horseback?” 

Now Mr. Winkle did entertain considerable misgivings in the 
very lowest recesses of his own heart, relative to his equestrian 
skill', but, as he would not have them even suspected on any 
account, he at once replied with great hardihood, “ Certainly. 
I should enjoy it , of all things.” / 

Mr. Winkle had rushed upon his fate-, there was no resource. 
“ Let them be at the door by eleven said Mr. Pickwick. 

“Very well, sir,” replied the waiter. 

The waiter retired ; the breakfast concluded ; and the travellers 
ascended to their respective bed-rooms, to prepare a change of 
clothing , to take with them on their approaching expedition. 

Mr. Pickwick had made his preliminary arrangements , and 
was looking over the coffee-room blinds at the passengers in the 
street , when the waiter entered , and announced that the chaise 
was ready — an announcement which the vehicle itself confirmed, 
by forthwith appearing before the coffee-room blinds aforesaid. 

It was a curious little green box on four wheels, with a low place 
like a wine bin for two behind, and an elevated perch for one 
in front , drawn by an immense brown horse , displaying great 
symmetry of bone. An hostler stood near it, holding by. the 
bridle another immense horse — apparently a near relative ofthe 
animal in the chaise — ready saddled for Mr. Winkle. 

“ Bless my soul ! ” said Mr. Pickwick , as they stood upon the 
pavement while the coats were being put in. “ Bless my soul! 
who’s to drive? I never thought of that.” 

“ Oh ! you , of course ,” said Mr. Tupman. 

“ Of course ,” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ I!” exclaimed Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Not the slightest fear, sir,” interposed the hostler. “ War- 
rant him quiet , sir ; a hinfant in arms might drive him.” 

“ He don’t shy, does he? ” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Shy, sir? — He wouldn’t shy if he was to meet a vaggin-load 
of monkeys , with their tails burnt off ” 

The last recommendation was indisputable. Mr. Tupman and 
Mr. Snodgrass got into the bin •, Mr. Pickwick ascended to his 
perch, and deposited his feet on a floor-clothed shelf, erected 
beneath it, for that purpose. 

“ Now, shiny Villiam ,” said the hostler to the deputy hostler, 
“ give thegen’lm’n thl ribbing .” 1 Shiny Villiam”— so called , 
probably, from his sleek haiC'arid'Gily countenance— placed the 
reins in Mr. Pickwick’s left harid^'and the upper hostler thrust a 
whip into his rigid. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



/ ( 

54 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ Woo ! ” cried Mr. Pickwick, as the tall quadruped evinced 
a decided inclination to back into the coffee-room window. 

“ Wo— o!” echoed Mr. Tupman and Mr. Snodgrass, from 
the bin. 

• “ Only his playfulness , gen’lm’n said the bead hostler, en- 
couragingly, “ jist kitch hold on him , Villiam.” The deputy 
restrained the 'animal’s impetuosity, and the principal ran to 
assist Mr. Winkle in mounting. 

“ T’other side, sir, if you please.” 

“ Blowed if the gen’lm’n worn’t a gettin’ up on the wrong 
side whispered a grinning post-boy, to the inexpressibly gra- 
tified waiter. 

Mr. Winkle, thus instructed, climbed into his saddle, with 
about as much difficulty as he would have experienced in get- 
ting up the side of a first-rate man-of-war. 

“ All right?” inquired Mr. Pickwick , with an inward presen- 
timent that it was all wrong. 

“ All right,” replied Mr. Winkle faintly. 

“ Let ’em go ,” cried the hostler, — “ Hold him in , sir •, ” and 
away went the chaise , and the saddle horse , with Mr. Pickwick 
on the box of the one , and Mr. Winkle on the back of the other, 
to the delight and gratification of the whole inn yard. 

“ What makes him go sideways? ” said Mr. Snodgrass in the 
bin, to Mr. Winkle in the saddle. 

“ I can’t imagine ,” replied Mr. Winkle. His horse was going 
up the street in the most mysterious manner — side first, with 
his bead towards one side of the way, and his tail to the other. 

Mr. Pickwick had no leisure to observe either this, or any 
other particular, the whole of his faculties being concentrated in 
the management of the animal attached to the chaise , who dis- 
played various peculiarities, highly interesting to a by-stander, 
but by no means equally amusing to any one seated behind him. 
Besides constantly jerking his head up , in a very unpleasant and 
uncomfortable manner, and tugging at the reins to an extent 
which rendered it a matter of great difficulty for Mr. Pickwick 
to hold them , he bad a singular propensity for darting suddenly 
every now and then to the side of the road , then stopping short, 
and then rushing forward for some minutes , at a speed which 
it was wholly impossible to control. 

. “ What ccfn he mean by this? ” said Mr. Snodgrass , when the 
horse had executed this manoeuvre for the twentieth time. 

“ I don’t know,” replied Mr. Tupman 5 “ it looks very like 
shying, don’t it?” Mr. Snodgrass was about to reply, when he 
was interrupted by a shout from Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Woo! ” said that gentleman, “ I have dropped my whip.” 

“ Winkle,” cried Mr. Snodgrass, as the equestrian came 


uj 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 56 

• trotting up on tlie tall horse , with his hat over his ears , and 
shaking all over, as if he would shake to pieces , with the violence 
of the exercise. “ Pick up the whip , there’s a good fellow.” 
Mr. Winkle pulled at the bridle of the tall horse till he was black 
in the face ; and having at length succeeded in stopping him , 
dismounted , handed the whip to Mr. Pickwick , and grasping 
the reins , prepared to remount. 

Now whether the tall horse , in the natural playfulness of his 
disposition , was desirous of having a little innocent recreation 
with Mr. Winkle-, or whether it occurred to him that he could 
perform the journey as much to his own satisfaction without a 
rider as with one , are points upon which , of course , we can 
arrive at no definite and distinct conclusion. By whatever motives 
the animal was actuated , certain it is that Mr. Winkle had no 
sooner touched the reins , than he slipped them over his head , 
and darted backwards to their full length. 

“ Poor fellow,” said Mr. Winkle , soothingly, — “ poor fellow 
— good old horse.” The “ poor fellow ” was proof against 
flattery : the more Mr. Winkle tried to get nearer him , the more 
he sidled away ; and , notwithstanding all kinds of coaxing and 
wh'eedling, there were Mr. Winkle and the horse going round 
and round each other for ten minutes , at the end of which time 
each was at precisely the same distance from the other as when 
they first commenced — an unsatisfactory sort of thing under any 
circumstances , but particularly so in a lonely road , where no as- 
sistance can be procured. 

“ What am I to do? ” shouted Mr. Winkle , after the dodging 
had been prolonged for a considerable time. “ What am I to do? 
I can’t get on him?” 

“ You had better lead him till we come to a turnpike replied 
Mr. Pickwick from the chaise. 

“ But he won’t come, roared Mr. Winkle. “ Do come , and 
bold him.” 

Mr. Pickwick was the very personation of kindness and hu- 
manity : he threw the reins on the horse’s back, and having 
descended from his seat, carefully drew the chaise into the 
hedge , lest anything should come along the road , and stepped 
back to the -assistance of his distressed companion, leaving 
Mr. Tupman pnd Mr. Snodgrass in the vehicle. 

The horse no sooner beheld Mr. Pickwick advancing towards 
him , with the chaise whip in his hand , than he exchanged the 
rotary motion in which he had previously indulged, for a re- 
trograde movement of so very determined a character, that it at 
once drew Mr. Winkle , who was still at the end of the bridle , at 
a rather quicker rate than fast walking, in the direction from 
which they had just come. Mr. Pickwick ran to his assistance •, 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



56 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

but the faster Mr. Pickwick ran forward , the faster the horse 
ran backward. There was a great scraping of feet ^«fid kicking 
up of the dust; and at last Mr. Winkle, his arms being nearly 
pulled out of their sockets , fairly let go his hold. The horse 
paused, stared, shook his head, turned round; and 'quietly 
trotted home to Rochester, leaving Mr. Wiptte^ahd Mr. Pick- 
wick gazing on each bther with countenances of Wank' dismay. 
A rattling noise at a littledistance attracted their attentions <They 
looked up. “ 

“Bless my soul! M; exclaimed the agonized Mr. Pickwick , 
“ there’s the other horse running away! ” 

It was but too true. The animal was startled by the noise , 
and the reins were on his back. The result may be guessed. He 
tore off with the four-wheeled chaise behind him, and Mr. Tup- 
man and Mr. Snodgrass in the four-wheeled chaise. The heat 
was a short one. Mr. Tupman threw himself into the ; hedge, 
Mr. Snodgrass followed his example, the horse dashed the four- 
wheeled chaise against a wooden bridge, separated the wheels 
from the body, and the bin from the perch ; and finally stood 
stock still , to gaze upon the ruin he had made. 1 
The first care of the two unspilt friends was to ’extricate 'their 
unfortunate companions from their bed of quickset — a process 
which gave them the unspeakable satisfaction of discovering that 
they had sustained no injury, beyond sundry rents in their 
garments , and various lacerations from the brambles. The next 
thing to be done was to Unharness the horse. This complicated 
process having been effected , the party walked slowly 1 forward , 
leading the horse among them , and abandoning the chaise to 
its fate. 1 ' . - ■ 

An hour’s walking brought the travellers to a Httle tdhd-side 
public-house , with two elm trees, a horse trough, arid ii sign- 
post, in front ; one or two deformed hay-ricks behirid , a kitehett 
garden at the sideband rotten sheds and mouldering dut-houses, 
jumbled in strange confusion , all about it. A red-headed man 
was working iri the garden; and to him Mr. Pickwick called 
lustily— “ Hallo there! ” 

The red-beaded man raised his body, shaded his eyes with 
his hand , arid stared , long and, coolly, at Mr. Pickwick arid his 
companions. ’ 

“ Hallo Uiere!,’ 

“ Halio ! ” was 
“.How far is ittoJHngtey Jleil? 

‘hBetter «risfeven;mite^’!J ojui bornuj . 

“ Is it a>goodiHMul<2 <mw ''/jd t jioriw • '< ■ . ,r<i. 

“ No , t ? ant.” Having uttefedttfhii'bfrief reply, and apparently 


,'U 


’ Repeated. Jdr, ti 
the red-headed mao’s reply 




Ii 


: i 1 } ‘ ■' f 1 ! ’ : A 
lib < 1 ^ « n, 

.-i t ( ■; it 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 57 

satisfied himself with another scrutiny, the red-beaded man 
resumed his work. ... , .• , . , , i, ,,</>>! mo v 

“ We want to put this florae up here,” said Mr, . Pickwick, 
“ I suppose we can, can’t we?” , , , lu . mIUj. 

“ Want to put that ere horse up , do pe?” repeptpg. thp.jp?4r 
headed man , leaning on his spade. ., ll7 , tJ ojjuj 

“ Of course,” replied Mr. Pickwick, who had by, this, time 
advanced , horse in hand , to the garden rails. miiUJio . 

“ Missus! ” — roared the man with the red head, emerging 
from the garden , and looking very hard at the horse — ‘ ‘ Missus ! ” 
A tall bony woman — straight all the way down— >in a coarse 
blue pelisse , with the waist an inch or two belovy hccathHhts , 
responded to the call. . , ,, ./ r 1 i , 

“ Can we put this horse up here , my good woman ? s ” sajd.Mr. 
Tupman , advancing , and speaking in his most seductive tohCS- 
The woman looked very hard at the whole party ; and the red- 
headed man whispered something in her ear. r u 

“ No,” replied the woman , after a little consideration , ‘‘ Pm 
afeerd on it.” .. . 

“ Afraid!” exclaimed Mr. Pickwick; “ what’s the woman 
afraid of?” , 

“ It got us in trouble last time said the woman , turning into 
the house; “ I woant have nothin’ to say to ’un.” ., 

“ Most extraordinary thing I ever met , with in my life said 
the astonished Mr. Pickwick. 

“I — I — really believe,” whispered Mr. Winkle, as his 
friends gathered round him , “ that they think we have come by 
this horse jp some, dishonest mannpr.” 

“ What! ” exclaimed Mr. Pickwick , in a storm of indignation. 
Mr. Winkle mpdestly repeated his suggestion. 

“ Hfifio,, you fellow ! ” said the angry Mr. Pickwick, “ do you 
think wp stole this horse ? ” 

“ I’m sure ye did ,” replied the red-headed man , with a grin 
which agitated, bis countenance from onp auricular organ to the 
other. Saying which , he turned into the house , mid banged the 
door after him. ,,, ' 4 , 

“ It’s like a dream ,” — ejaculated Mr. Pickwick , “ a hideous 
dream. The idea of a man’s walking about, all day, with a 
dreadful horse that he can’t get rid of! ” The depressed Pick- 
wickians turned moodily away, with the tall quadruped, for 
which they all felt the most unmitigated disgust, following slowly 
at their heels. 

It was late in the afternoon , when the four friends, and their 
four-footed companion, turned into the lane leading to Manor 
Farm : and even when they were so near their place of destina- 
tion , the pleasure they would otherwise have experienced , was. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



58 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

materially damped as they reflected on the singularity of their 
appearance , and the absurdity of their situation. Torn clothes , 
lacerated faces , dusty shoes , exhausted looks , and , above all , 
the horse. Oh, how Mr. Pickwick cursed that horse : he had 
eyed the noble animal from time to time with looks expressive of 
hatred and revenge ; more than once he had calculated the prob- 
able amount of the expense he would incur by cutting his throat ; 
and now the temptation to destroy him , or to cast him loose 
upon, the world , rushed upon his mind with ten-fold force. He 
was roused from a meditation on these dire imaginings , by the 
sudden appearance of two iigores, at a turn of the lane. It was 
Mr. Wardle , and his faithful attendant , the fat boy. 

“Why, where have you been ? ” said the hospitable old gentle- 
man. “ I’ve been waiting for you all day. Well , you do look 
tired. What ! Scratches ! Not hurt , I hope — eh ? ” Well , I am 
glad to hear that— very. So you’ve been spilt, eh? Nevermind. 
Common accident in these parts. Joe — damn that boy, he’s 
asleep again — Joe, take that horse from the gentleman ; and lead 
it into the stable.” 

The fat boy sauntered heavily behind them with the animal ; 
and the old gentleman condoling %ith his guests in homely 
phrase , on so much of the day’s adventures as they thought pro- 
per to communicate , ted the way to the kitchen. 

“ We’ll have you pin to rights here ,” said the old gentleman , 

“ and then I’ll introduce you to the people in the parlour. Emma, 
bring out the cherry brandy ;>now, Jane , a needle and thread 
here ; towels and water, Mary. Come, girls, bustle about.” 

Three or four buxon girls speedily dispersed in search of the ^ 
different articles in requisition , while a couple of large-headed , 
circulajc-yisagfd. males rose from their seats in the chimney cor- 
ner (fora (though it.wasa May evening , their attachment to the 
wood (ire .appeared as cordial as if it were Christmas) , and dived 
into some obscure recesses , from which they speedily produced 
a bottle of blacking, and some half-dozen brushes. 

“ Bustle ,” said the old gentleman again ; but the admonition 
was quite unnecessary, for one of the girls poured out the cherry 
brandy, and another thought in the towels , and one of the men 
suddenly seizing Mr. Pickwick by the leg, at the imminent hazard 
of throwing him off his balance, brushed away at his boot , till his 
corns were red-hot; whale the otbershampoo’d Mr. Winkle with 
a, heavy clothes brush, indulging, during the operation , in that 
hissing sound, which hostlers arewolit to produce, when engaged 
in rubbing down a home. - i < • ■ 

„ , Mr, . Snodgrass,, having eowcluded his ablutions, took a survey 
of the room , white^tanding with Ms back to the fire , sipping his 
cherry brandy .with heartfelt satisfaction. He describes it, as a 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 59 

large apartment , with a red brick floor, and a capacious chimney ; 
the ceiling garnished with hams , sides of bacon , and ropes of 
onions. The walls were decorated with several hunting-whips, 
two or three bridles , a saddle , and an old rusty blunderbuss , 
with an inscription below it , intimating that itwas “ Loaded” — 
as it had been , on the same authority, for half a century at least. 
An oM eight-day dock , of solemn and sedate demeanour, ticked 
gravely in one corner ; and a silver watch , of equal antiquity, 
dangled from one of the many hooks which ornamented the 
dresser. 

“ Beady? ” said the old gentleman inquiringly, when his guests 
had been washed , mended , brushed, and brandied. 

“ Quite ,” replied Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Come along then 5 ” and the party having traversed several 
dark passages , and being joined by Mr. Tupman , who had 
lingered behind to snatch a kiss from Emma , for which he had 
"been duly rewarded with sundry pushings and scratchings, ar- 
rived at the parlour door. 

“ Welcome ,”said their hospitable host, throwing it open and 
stepping forward to announce. them. “ Welcome, gentlemen , to 
Manor Farm.” 


CHAPTER VII. 

AN OLD-FASHIONED CARD - PARTY — THE CLERGYMAN’S VERSES — THE STORY OF THE 
convict's. RETURN. 

Several guests who were assembled in the old parlour, rose 
to greet Mart JPiokwick and hie friends upon their entrance ; and 
during theperformance of the ceremony of introduction , with 
all doe forroalities, Mr. Pickwick had 'leisure to observe the ap- 
pearance, and speculate upon the characters and pursuits of 
the persons by whom he was surrounded -^a habit in which he, 
in common with many other great men , delighted to indulge. 

A very old lady, in a lofty cap and faded silk gown — no less 
a personage than Mr. Wardle’s mother— occupied the post of 
honour on the right-band comer of the chimney-piece 5 and 
various certificates of her having been thought up in the way 
she should go when youngs and! of her not having departed from 
it when old , -ornamented the-walls, in the form of samplers of 
ancient date, worsted landscapes of equahantiquity, and crimson 
silk tearkjettte holders of * tedrei modern period; 1 ’ The aunt , the 
two , young ladies, - and Mit Wabdle r ench Vyifrg With' the other 
iq paying zealous Bnd unremitting attentions to the old lady, 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



60 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

crowded round her easy chair, one holding her ear-trumpet , 
another an orange , and a third a smelling-bottle, while a fourth 
was busily engaged in patting and punching the pillows, which 
were arranged for her support. On the opposite side, sat a 
bald-headed old gentleman , with a good-humoured benevolent 
face — the clergyman of Dingley Dell ; and next him sat his wife , 
a stout blooming old lady, who looked as if she were well skilled , 
not only in the art and mystery of manufacturing home-made 
cordials greatly to other people’s satisfaction, but of tasting 
them occasionally very much to her own. A little hard-headed , 
Ripstone pippin-faced man , was conversing with a-lat ol^ gentle- 
man in 1 one corner ; and two or three more old gentlemen , and 
two or 'three more old ladies, sat bolt upright and motionless 
on their chairs, staring very hard at Mr. Pickwick and his fellow- 
voyagers. 

“ Mr. Pickwick, mother,” said Mr. Wardle, at the very top 
of his voice. 

‘ Ah ! ” said the old lady, shaking her head ; “I can’t hear you.” 

“ Mr. Pickwick , grandma ! ” screamed both the young ladies, 
together. . 

“ Ah ! ” exclaimed the old lady. “ Well •, it don’t much mat- 
. ter. He don’t care for an old’ooman like me, I dare say.” 

‘ ‘ I assure you , ma’am ,” said Mr. Pickwick , grasping the" Old 
lady’s hand , and speaking so loud that the exertion imparted a 
crimson hue to his benevolent countenance; “I assure you, 
ma’am, that nothing delights me. more, than to see a lady of 
your time of life heading so fine a family, and looking so young 
and well.” ' 

Ah ! ” said the old lady, after a short pause ; “ It’s all very 
fine , I dare say ; but I can’t hear him.” 

“ Grandma’s rather put out now.,” said Miss Isabella Wardle, 
in a low tone ; “ but she’ll talk to you presently.” 

Mr. Piekwick’nodded his readiness to humour the infirmities 
of age, and entered into a general conversation with the other 
members of toe circle. 

. “ Delightful situation this,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Delightful ! ” echoed Messrs. Snodgrass , Tupman , and 
Winkle. - 

“ Well , I think it is ,” said Mr. Wardle. 

“ There ain’t a better spot o’ ground in all Kent., sir,” said 
the hard-headed man with the pippin-face ; “ there ain’t indeed , 
sir — I’m sure there ain’t, sir;” and the hard-headed man looked 
triumphantly round , as if he had been very much contradicted 
by somebody, but had got the better of bim at last. 

“ There ain’t a better spot o’ ground in all Kent,” said the 
hard-headed man again , after a pa use. 


Digitized by 


Google 



^ OF THE PICKWICK. CLUB. 61 

“ ’Cept Mullins’ Meadows ,”observedthe fat man, solemnly. 
“Mullins’ Meadows!” ejaculated > the other,, with profound 

contempt. , 

“ Ah, Mullins’ Meadows !” repeated the fat man. , , 

“ Reg’lar good land that,” interposed another fat man., 

“ And so it is , surely,” said a third fat man. , . 

“ Everybody knows that,” said the corpulent host- 
The hard-headed man looked dubiously rounds but. finding 
himself in a minority, assumed a compassionate .airland; said 
no more. " v - 

“ What are they talking about? inquired, the. old lady offline 
of her grand-daughters , in a very audible , voiee j for, like many 
deaf people , she never seemed to calculate on. the possibility of 
other persons hearing what she said herself. , . . - . -, .,i ,, 

“ About the land , grandma.” .- > , _ 

“ What about the land? — Nothing the matter, is there?. ” 

“ No , no. Mr. Miller was saying our land was better, than 
Mullins’ Meadows.” 

“ How should he know anything about it?” inquired the old 
lady indignantly. “Miller’s a conceited coxcomb, and you may ■ 
tell him 1 said so.” Saying which , the old lady, quite uncon- 
scious that she had spoken above a whisper, drew herself up , 
and looked carving knives at the hard-headed delinquent. 

“ Come, come,” said the bustling host, with a natural anxiety 
to change the conversation. — “ What say you to a rubber, 
Mr. Pickwick ? ” 

“ I should like it of all things,” replied that gentleman ; “ but 
pray don’t make up one on my account.” 

“ Oh , I assure you , mother’s very fond of a rubber,” said 
Mr. Wardlej “ain’t you, mother?” ,, ,, 

The old lady, who was much less, deaf on this subject than on 
any other, replied in the affirmative. j - n ! . - 

“ Joe, Joe,” said the old gentleman foe-damn that—- 
oh , here he is ; put out the card-tables.” i s ■ 

The lethargic youth contrived without; any additional rous- 
ing, to set out two card-tables, the Qne, for, Pope Joan, and the 
other for whist. The whist-players were , Mr. Pickwick and the 
old lady ; Mr. Miller and the fat gentleman. The round game 
comprised the rest of the company. . ,, ,, 

The rubber was conducted with alUhatjgna vity of deportment, 
and sedateness of demeanour* which) befit; the; pursuit entitled 
“ whist” — a solernu,;pbfi?ryance, tp^whicb, as,it appeared us, 
the title of “ game has^eeniyeflyifircverfinily.and^nomiBious- 
ly applied. The roundTgaroe-iteblCi aspthfiiPtber band , was .-30 
boisterously merry,. as materially to- interred the (Contemplations 
of Mr. Miller, who not heipg , quite sonmuchi absorbed as he 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



62 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

ought to have been , contrived to commit various high crimes 
and misdemeanours , which excited the wrath of the fat gentle- 
man to a very great extent , and called forth the good-humour 
of the old lady in a proportionate degree. 

“ There ! ” said the criminal Miller triumphantly, as he took 
up the odd trick at the conclusion of a hand ; “ that could, not 
have been played better, I flatter myself ; — 'impossible to have 
made another trick ! ” 

“ Miller ought to have trumped the diamond , oughtn't he, 
sir ? ” said the old lady. 

Mr. Pickwick nodded assent. 

“ Ought I, though?” said the unfortunate, with a doubtful 
appeal to his partner. 

“You ought, sir,” said the tat gentleman in an awful voice. 

“ Very sorry,” said the crestfallen Miller. 

“ Much use that,” growled the fat gentleman. 

“ Two by honours — makes us eight,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Another hand. Can you one ? ” inquired the old lady. 

“lean,” replied Mr. Pickwick. “ Double, single, and the 
rub.” 

“ Never was such luck,” said Mr. Miller. 

“ Never was such cards,” said the fat gentleman. 

A solemn silence *, Mr. Pickwick humorous , the old lady se- 
/ rious , the fat gentleman captious , and Mr. Miller timorous. 

“ Another double,” said the old lady : triumphantly making 
a memorandum of the circumstance, by placing one sixpence 
and a battered halfpenny, under the candlestick. 

“ A double , sir,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“Quite aware of the feet , sir,” replied the fat gentleman, 
sharply. 

Another game , with a similar result , was followed by a revoke 
from the unlucky Miller ; on which the fat gefitleman burst into 
a state of high personal excitement which lasted until the con- 
clusion of the game, when he retired into a corner, and remained 
perfectly mute for one hour and twenty-seven minutes ; at the 
end of which time, he emerged from his retirement, and offered 
Mr. Pickwick a pinch of snuff with the air of a man who had 
made up his mind to a Christian forgiveness of injuries sustain- 
ed. The old lady’s hearing decidedly improved , and the un- 
lucky Miller felt as much out of his element , as a dolphin in a 
sentry-box. > • m ..<v > . 

Meanwhile the round game proceeded right merrily. Isabella 
Wardle and Mr. Trundle ‘' went partners , ’ ’ and Emily Wardle 
and Mr. Snodgrass did: thB^sanie yaod even Mr. Tupman and 
the spinster aunt , estaWishhd a joik&etoek company of fish and 
flattery. Old Mr. Wardle Was-hvthevery height of his jollity; 


Digitized by 


Google 





OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 63 

and he was io funny in his management of the board , and the 
old ladies were -so sharp after their winnings , that the whole 
table was in a perpetual roar of merriment and laughter. There 
was one old lady who always had about half a dozen cards to 
pay for, at which everybody laughed, regularly every round ; 
and when the old lady looked cross at having to pay, they laugh- 
ed louder than ever ; on which the old lady’s face gradually 
brightened up, till at last she laughed louder than any of them. 
Then , when the spinster aunt got “ matrimony,” the young 
ladies laughed afresh, and the spinster aunt seemed disposed to 
be pettish ; till, feeling Mr. Tupman squeezing her hand under 
the table, she brightened up too , and looked rather knowing as 
if matrimony in reality were not quite so far off as some people 
thought for ; whereupon everybody laughed again , and espe- 
cially old Mr. Wardle , who enjoyed a joke as much as the 
youngest. As to Mr. Snodgrass , he did nothing but whisper 
poetical sentiments into his partner’s ear, which made one old 
gentleman facetiously sly, about partnerships at cards, and part- 
nerships for life , and caused the aforesaid old gentleman to 
make some remarks thereupon, accompanied with divers winks 
and chuckles , which made the company very merry and the old 
gentleman’s wife especially so. And Mr. Winkle came out with 
jokes which are very well known in t6wn , but are not at all 
known in the country ; and as everybody laughed at them very 
heartily and said they were very capital , Mr. Winkle was in a 
state of great honour and glory. And the benevolent clergyman 
looked pleasantly on ; for the happy faces which surrounded the 
table made the good old man fed happy top ; and though the 
merriment was rather boisterous, still it came from the heart and 
not from the lips : and this is the right sort of merriment, after all. 

The evening glided swiftly away, in these cheerftil recrea- 
tions ; and when the substantial , though homely, supper had 
been despatched, and the little party formed a social circle round 
the lire, Mr. Pickwick thought he had never felt so happy in his 
life, and at no time so much disposed to enjoy, and make the 
most of, the passing moment. 

“ Now this,” said the hospitable host, who was sitting in great 
state next the old lady’s arm-chair, with her hand fast clasped 
in his — “This is just what I like — the happiest moments of 
my life have been passed at this old fire-side : and I am so at- 
tached to it, that I keep up a blazing fire here every evening, until 
it actually grows too hot to bear it. "Why, my poor old mother, 
here , used to sit before- this fire-place upon that little stool, 
when she was a girl -*■ didn’t you, mother ? ” 

' The tear which starts unbidden to the eye when the recollec- 
tion of old times and the happiness of many years ago , is sud- 


Digitized by v^.c fie 



64 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

denly recalled , stole down the old lady’s face , as she shook her 

head with a melancholy smile. 

“ You must excuse my talking about this old place, Mr. Pick- 
wick,’,’ resumed the host , after a short pause — “ for I love it 
dearly, and know no other — the old houses and fields seem 
like living friends to me : and so does our little church with the 
ivy, — about which, by-the-by, our excellent friend there made 
a song when he first came amongst us. Mr. Snodgrass, have 
you anything in your glass ? ” 

“ Plenty, thank you ,” replied that gentleman , whose poetic 
curiosity had been greatly excited by the last observations of his 
entertainer. “ I beg your pardon, but you were talking about 
the song of the Ivy.” 

“ You must ask our friend opposite about that ,” said the host 
knowingly : indicating the clergyman by a nod of his head. 

“ May I say that I should like to hear you repeat it, sir? ” 
said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“Why really,” replied the clergyman, “it’s a very slight 
affair ; and the only excuse 1 have for having ever perpetrated it , 
is , that I was a young man at the time. Such as it is , however, 
you shall hear it if you wish.” 

A murmur of curiosity was of course the reply ; and the old 
gentleman proceeded to recite, with the aid of sundry promptings 
from his wife, the lines in question. “ I call them ,” said he , 

THE IVY GREEN. 

Oh , a dainty plant is the Ivy green , 

That creepeth o’er ruins old ! * 

Of right choice food are his meals , I ween , 

In his cell so lone and cold. 

The wall must be crumbled , the stone decayed , 

To pleasure his dainty whim : 

And the mouldering dust that years have made, 

Is a merry meal for him. 

Creeping where no life is seen , 

A rare old plant is the Ivy green. 

Fast he stealeth on , though he wears no wings , 

And a staunch old heart has he. 

How closely he twineth , how tight he clings , 

To his friend the huge Oak Tree ! 

And slily he traileth along the ground , 

And his leaves he gently waves , 

As he joyously hugs and crawl etb round 
The rich mould of dead men’s graves. 

Creeping where grim death has been , 

A rare old plant is the Ivy green. 


Digitized by 


Google 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 65 

Whole ages have fled and their works decayed , 

And nations have scattered been ; 

But the stout old Ivy shall never fade , 

From its hale and hearty green. 

The brave old plant in its lonely days , 

Shall fatten upon the past : 

For the stateliest building man can raise , 

Is the Ivy's food at last. 

Creeping on , where time has been , 

A rare old plant is the Ivy green. 

While the old gentleman repeated these lines a second time , 
to enable Mr. Snodgrass to note them down , Mr. Pickwick 
perused the lineaments of his face with an expression of great 
interest. Tffe old gentleman having concluded his dictation , 
and Mr. Snodgrass having returned his note-book to his pocket, 
Mr. Pickwick said, — 

“ Excuse me , sir, for making the remark on so short an 
acquaintance ; but a gentleman like yourself cannot fail, I should 
think , to have observed many scenes and incidents worth 
recording , in the course of your experience as a minister of the 
Gospel.” 

“ I have witnessed some certainly,” replied the old gentleman; 
“ but the incidents and characters have been of a homely and 
ordinary nature , my sphere of action being so very limited.” 

“ You did make some notes , I think, about John Edmunds, 
did you not?” inquired Mr. Wardle, who appeared very desirous 
to draw his friend out, for the edification of his new visiters. 

The old gentleman slightly nodded his head in token of assent, 
and was proceeding to change the subject , when Mr. Pickwick 
said , — 

“ I beg your pardon, sir ; but pray, if I may venture to inquire, 
who was John Edmunds? ” 

“ The very thing I was about to ask,” said Mr. Snodgrass, 
eagerly. 

“ You are fairly in for it,” said the jolly host. “ You must 
satisfy the curiosity of these gentlemen , sooner or later ; so you 
had better take advantage of this favourable opportunity, and 
do so at once.” 

The old gentleman smiled gobd-humotiredly as he drew his 
chair forward; — the remainder of the party drew their chairs 
closer together, especially Mr. Ifo^fnan and the spinster aunt, 
who were possibly rather har^p|,1h^ring.; ‘.giid ,$e old lady’s 
ear-trumpet having been dul^^psted^^d.&T Miller (who 
had fallen asleep during the ,£$oitrdnO£uAh& iverses) roused from 
his slumbers by an admonitory* ptH£lh;*d*itoietered beneath the 
table by his ex-partner the soltoiR fettolanythe old gentleman, 
i. 5 


Digitized by i^.ooQle 



66 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

without further preface, commen^bti ttie following tale, to which 
we have taken the liberty of pr^fiMig the title of 

■ •’ »* 1 ' * •'* 1 ' * '** 

THE CONVICT’S RETORN, 

“ When I flrst settled in this village,” said the old gentleman, 
“ which is now just five-and-tweaty years ago , the most no- 
torious person among my parishioners was a man of the name 
of Edmunds , who leased a small farm near this spot. He was a 
morose , savage-hearted , bad man : idle and dissolute in his 
habits j pruei and ferocious in his disposition. Beyond the few 
lazy and reckless vagabonds with whom he sauntered away his 
tim# in the Gelds , or sotted in the ale-house , he had not a single 
friepd or acquaintance ; no one cared to speak to the man whom 
many feared, and every one detested — and Edmunds was 
Shunned by all. 

“ This man had a wife and one son, who, when I Grst came 
here, was about twelve years old. Of the acuteness of that 
woman’s sufferings, of the gentle and enduring manner in 
which she bore them , of the agony of solicitude with which she 
reared that boy, no one can form an adequate conception. 
Heaven forgive me the supposition , if it be an uncharitable one, 
but I do Grmly and in ray soul believe , that the man systema- 
tically tried for many years to break her heart ; hut she bore it 
all for her child’s sake, and , however strange it may seem to 
many, for his father’s too ; for brute as he was and cruelly as 
he treated her, she had loved him once ; and the recollection of 
what he had been to her, awakened feelings of forbearance and 
meekness under suffering in’ her bosom, to which all God’s 
creatures , but women , are strangers. 

“ They were poor — they could not be otherwise when the 
man pursued such courses; but the woman’s unceasing and 
unwearied exertions , early and late , morning , noon , and night, 
kept them above actual want. Those exertions were but ill 
repaid. People who passed the spot in the evening — sometimes 
at a late hour of the night — reported that they had heard the 
moans and sobs of a woman in distress, and the sound of blows v 
and more than once, when it was past midnight, the., boy 
knocked softly at the door of a neighbour’s house , whither he 
had been sent, to escape the drunken fury of his unnatural 
father. * , <( -a .. . f{ - r , ?*,, . , \ 

“ During the whole of this time*;<rad when thq pqor prnatqre 
Often bore about her marks of jllrrp^gOiand violence whipbj&he 
could not wholly conceal * £he. wq$ ft constant attendant at ojur 
little church. Regularly Snnda8 fc fliorning ( and aftarpoWr 
she occupied the same seat with the boy-at her side ^amUhough 





OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 67 

they were both poorly dressed — much more so than many of 
their neighbours who were in a lower station — they were always 
neat and clean. Every one had a friendly nod and a kind word 
for ‘ poor Mrs. Edmunds and sometimes , when she stopped 
to exchange a few words with a neighbour at the conclusion of 
the service in the little row of elm trees which leads to the 
church porch , or lingered behind to gaze with a mother’s pride 
and fondness upon her healthy boy, as he sported before her 
with* some little companions , her care-worn face would lighten 
up with an expression of heartfelt gratitude ; and she would 
look , if not cheerful and happy, at least tranquil and eontented. 

“ Five or six years passed away*, the boy had become a 
robust and weU-grown youth. The time that had strengthened 
the child’s slight frame and knit his weak limbs into the strength 
of manhood , had bowed his mother’s form , and enfeebled her 
steps; but the arm that should have supported her was no longer 
locked in hers ; the face that should have cheered her, no more 
looked upon her own. She occupied her old seat, but there 
was a vacant one beside her. The Bible was kept as carefully 
as ever, the places were found and folded down as they used to 
be : but there was no one to read it with her ; and the tears fell 
thick and fast upon the book , and blotted the words from her 
eyes. Neighbours were as kind as they were wont to be of old, 
but she shunned their greetings with averted head. There was 
no lingering among the old elm trees now— no cheering anti- 
cipations of happiness yet in store. The desolate woman drew 
her bonnet closer over her face, and walked hurriedly away. 

“ Shall I tell you , that the young man , who, looking back 
to the earliest of his childhood’s days to which memory and 
consciousness extended , and carrying bis recollection down to 
that moment , could remember nothing which was not in some 
way connected with a long series of voluntary privations suffered 
by his mother for his sake , with ill-usage , and insult , and vio- 
lence, and all endured for him? — shall I tell you, that he, with 
a reckless disregard of her breaking heart, and a sullen wilful 
forgetfulness of all she had done and borne for him , had linked 
himself with depraved and abandoned men , and was madly 
pursuing a headlong career, which must bring death to him, and 
Shame to her? Alas for human nature ! You have anticipated it 
long since. 

“ The measure of the unhappy woman’s misery and misfor- 
tune was about to be completed. Numerous offences had been 
committed in the neighbourhood ; the perpetrators remained 
undiscovered , and their boldness increased. A robbery of a 
daring and aggravated nature occasioned a vigilance of pursuit, 
and a strictness of search , they had not calculated on. Young 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



68 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

Edmunds was suspected with three companions. He was appre- 
hended — committed— tried— -condemned— -to die; : - 

"** The wild andpierciog-sbriek foori* a woman’s voice, which 
redounded through the' court when the< solemn sentence was 
ptOndiniced ,> rings in my ears at this' moment: That cry struck 
a lerirdr to the Culprit’s heart, whidh trial, condemnation— the 
approach Of death itself , had failed to awaken. Thfe lips which 
hed beeh compressed in dogged sulleuness throughout, quivered 
jind' phrted involuntarily ; the face turned ashy pale as the ‘cold 
perspiration broke forth from every pore ; the sturdy limbs of 
tHh 1 Mbtt 'trfembled , and he staggered in the dock. 

“Wthe first transports of her mental anguish, ’the suffering 
mother 1 threw herself upon her knees at my feet, and fervently 
h^Oupht the Almighty Being who had hitherto supported her 
in' hit ; her troubles , to release her from a world of woe and 
misery, and to spare the life of her only child. A burst of grief, 
arid h 1 violent struggle , such as I hope I may never have 1 to 
witness again , succeeded. I knew that her heart was breaking 
from that hour ; but I never once heard complaint or murmur 
escape her lips. 

“ It was a piteous spectacle to see that woman in the prison 
yard from day to day , eagerly and fervently attempting , by 
affection and entreaty, to soften the hard heart of her obdurate 
son. It was in vain. He remained moody , obstinate , and 
ufltttoved: Not even the unlooked-for commutation of his sen- 
tence to transportation for fourteen years, softened for an instant 
the sullen hardihood of his demeanour. 

“ But the spirit of resignation and endurance that had so long 
upheld her, was unable to contend against bodily weakness and 
infirmity. She fell sick. She dragged her tottering limbs from 
the bed to visit her son once more, but her strength failed her, 
and she sank powerless on the ground. 

“ And now the boasted coldness and indifference of the young 
man were tested indeed; and the retribution that fell heavily 
upon him y nearly drove him mad. A day passed away and his 
mother was not there; another flew by, and she came not near 
him : a third evening arrived , and yet he had not seen her ; and 
in four-and-twenty hours, he was to be separated from her' — 
perhaps' for ever. Oh! . how the long-forgotten thoughts of 
former days rushed upon his mind , as he almost ran up and 
down the narrow yard — as if intelligence would arrive the 
sooner tor his hurrying— -and how bitterly -a sense of his 
helplessness and' desolation, rushed upon him, when he heard 
the truth ! His mother, the only parent he had ever known , lay 
ilL— +ifc mighb be ^ dying— within one mile of the ground he stood 
ob p Were he free and unfettered, a few minutes would placet 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OB! TflJl.P^CKWfiqfC .CLUB. 

him by her side. , He rnshed'tofche gate., ; and ,, grasping. tbeiiftW 
rails with the energy,of. desperation-, .shook it. tiil it;rang, ( again, 
and threw himself against the thick wall as if to force a patWlg /e 
through Uie stone v but the strong, building knocked his fepbJc 
efforts , and he beat his, bands together and wppt like a child, , , , , 
“ I bore the mother’e foBgweness and blessing , to; her s.Qb ; if> 
prison *, and I carried his solemn assurance of repentance,) and 
hisfervent supplication for pardon , to her sick bed. I bpsrd 
with, pity and compassioo^ the repentant man devise a tUpusaudj 
little plans for her comfort and support, when he returned* 

I knew, that many months before he could reach > his ifflftfe- of 
destination, his mother would be no longer of this wonkb-Hfiom 
“He was removed by night A few; weeks afterwards. 
poor woman’s soul took its flight, I confidently hope , apdjso^ 
lemnly believe , to a place of eternal happiness and rest l per- 
formed the burial service over her remains. She lies in our little 
churchyard. There is no stone at her grave’s head. Her sorr, 
rows were known to man ; her virtues to God. 

“It had been arranged previously to the cbnvict’s departure, 
that he should write to his mother so soon as he could obtain 
permission , and that the letter should be addressed to me. The, 
father had positively refused to see bis son from the moment, of 
his apprehension 5 aud it was a matter of indifference to him 
whether he lived or died. Many years passed over without any 
intelligence of him ; and when more than half his term of trans- 
portation had expired and I had received no letter, I concluded 
him to be dead, as , indeed , 1 almost hoped he might be. 

“ Edmunds , however, had been sent a considerable distance 
up the country on his arrival at the settlement', and to this cir- 
cumstance, perhaps, may be attributed the fact, that though 
several letters were despatched, none of them ever reached my 
hands. He remained in the same place during the , whole 
fourteen years. At the expiration of the term, steadily adhering 
to his old resolution , and the pledge he gave his mother, he 
made his way back to England amidst innumerable difficulties , 
and returned, on foot, to his native place. ■ 

“On a fine Sunday evening, in the month of August , John 
Edmunds set foot in the village he had left with shame and dis- 
grace seventeen years before. His nearest way lay through the 
churohyard. The man’a. heart swelled as>he crossed the stile. 
The tall otielrnsj ’through' whdse ^branches. the declining sum.- 
cast herei and 'there; a riohratyOC'lightupontheshadypathv 
awakened the assooidtionsiof bis etrrliest days^ He pictured him- 
self aa he was, then { tclingihg to his; mother’s hand , <and -walking 
peacefully, tocburoh. He remembered how he used to lookup 
into her pale face 5 and how her eyes would sometimes fill with 



Digitized by Gc ^le 



70 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

tears as she gazed upon his features —tears which fell hot upon 
his forehead as she stooped to kiss him , and made him weep 
too , although he little knew then what hitter tears hers were. 
He thought how often he had run merrily down that path with 
some childish play-fellow, looking back ever and again , to catch 
his mother’s smile, or hear her gentle voice; and then a veil 
seemed lifted from his memory, and words of kindness un- 
requited, and warnings despised, and promises broken, thronged 
upon his recollection till his heart failed him , and he could bear 
it no longer. 

“ He entered the church. The evening service was concluded 
and the congregation had dispersed , but it was not yet closed. 
His steps echoed through the low building with a hollow sound, 
and he almost feared to be alone , it was so still and quiet. He 
looked round him. Nothing was changed. The place seemed 
smaller than it used to be ; but there were the old monuments 
on which he had gazed with childish awe a thousand times; the 
little pulpit with its faded cushion ; the Communion table before 
which he had so often repeated the Commandments he had re- 
verenced as a child , and forgotten as a man. He approached the 
old seat ; it looked cold and desolate. The cushion bad been 
removed , and the Bible was not there. Perhaps his mother now 
occupied a poorer seat , or possibly she had grown inGrm and 
could not reach the church alone. He dared not think of what 
he feared. A cold feeling crept over him, and he trembled vio- 
lently, as he turned away. 

“ An old man entered the porch just as he reached it. Ed- 
munds started back , for he knew him well ; many a time had he 
watched him digging graves in the churchyard. What would 
he say to the returned convict? The old man raised his eyes to 
the stranger’s face, bid him ‘good evening,’ and walked slowly 
on. He had forgotten him. 

“He walked down the hill, and through the village. The 
weather was warm , and the people were sitting at their doors , 
or strolling in their little gardens as he passed , enjoying the se- 
renity of the evening, and their rest from labour. Many a look 
was turned towards him , and many a doubtful glance he cast ou 
either side to see whether any knew and shunned him. There 
were strange faces in almost every house; in some he recognised 
the burly form of some old school-fellow — a boy when he last 
saw him — surrounded by a troop of merry children ; in others 
he saw, seated in an easy chair at the cottage door a feeble and 
infirm old man , whom he only remembered as a hale and hearty 
labourer ; but they had all forgotten him , and he passed on un- 
known. 

“ The last soft light of the setting sun had fallen on the earth. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PlCpVVIjCJt CLUB. /I 

casting a rich glow pn ( tt^e yeflo^; cqrfl ,$hqa yes, ^ucl IqpgUienjng 
theshadq^ofj^orc^d^tjr^, hq $tqod b^forq, pjld 

house— the jjojne,^ Ws^qfynoy, ^owWqh his heart bad yearpfsd 
with sn intensity, or ajjectipn not jo 6e .described , through long 
and weary years pf captivity -and sorrow- The paling was, low — 
though he ,well remembered the. time;, when it had seemed, s 
high wall to him 5 and be looked oyer into the old garden,, *fhCTC 
were more seeds #nd, gayer flowers than there used to be,, .pjut 
there were the old trees still— the, very tree, under which,, ftp 
had lain a thousand times when tired with playing in the ( $Vh,» 
and, Celt the soft mild sleep of happy boyhood steal gentiyj j'upon 
him. There were voices within the . house. He listened, ^but 
they jeli strangely upon his ear ; he knew them not. Tb€fy,^ap 
merry too 5 and he well knew that his poor old mother co|fld 
npt be cheerful , and he away. The door opened, and a group 
o,f littlp children bounded out, shouting and romping. The father, 
with 0 little boy in his arms, appeared at the door, and they 
crowded round him, clapping their tiny handstand dragging 
him out„to join their joyous sports. The convict thought on the 
many times he had shrunk from his father's sight in that very 
plflCe. He remembered how often he had buried his trembling 
head beneath the bed-clothes , and heard the harsh word , and 
the hard stripe, and his mother's wailing ; and though the man 
sobbed aloud with agony qf mind as he left the spot , his fist was 
clenched , and his teeth were set, in fierce and' deadly passion. 

“ And such was the return to which he had looked through 
the weary perspective of many years , and for which he had un- 
dergone so much suffering! No face of welcome, no look of 
forgiveness, no house to receive, no hand to help him — and this 
too, in the old village. What was his loneliness in the wild thick 
woods where man was never seen , to this ! 

“ He felt that in the distant land of his bondage and infamy, 
he had thought of his native place as it was when he left it ; — 
not as it would be when he returned. The sad reality struck 
coldly at his heart , and his spirit sank within him. He had not 
courage to make inquiries , or to present himself to the only 
person who was likely to receive him with kindness and com- 
passion. He walked slowly on ; and shunning the road side like 
a guilty man , turned into a meadow he well remembered ; and 
covering his face with his hands , threw himself upon the grass. 

“ He had not observed that a man was lying on the bank 
beside him ; his garments rustled as he turned round to steal a 
look at the new comer : and Edmunds raised his head. 

“ The man had moved into a sitting posture. His body was 
much bent , and his face was wrinkled and yellow. His dress 
denoted him an inmate of the workhouse ; he had the appearance 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



73 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

of being very old , but it looked more the effect of dissipation 
or disease , than length of years. He was staring hard at the 
stranger, and though his eyes were lustreless and heavy at first, 
they appeared to glow with an unnatural and alarmed expres- 
sion after they had been fixed upon him for a short time , until 
they seemed to be starting from their sockets. Edmunds gra- 
dually raised himself to his knees , and looked more and more 
earnestly upon the old man’s face. They gazed upon each other 
in silence. 

“ The old man was ghastly pale. He shuddered and tottered 
to his feet. Edmunds sprang to his. He stepped back apace or 
two. Edmunds advanced. 

“ ‘ Let me hear you speak ,’ said the convict in a thick broken 
voice. 

“ ‘ Stand off,’ cried the old man , with a dreadful oath. The 
convict drew, closer to him. 

“ * Stand off,’ shrieked the old man. Furious with terror he 
raised his stick, and struck Edmunds a heavy blow across the face. 

“‘Father — devil,’ murmured the convict, between his set 
teeth. He rushed wildly forward , and clenched the old man by 
the throat — but be was his father ; and his arm fell powerless by 
his side. 

“ The old man uttered a loud yell which rang through the 
lonely fields like the howl of an evil spirit. His face turned black : 
the gore rushed from his mouth and nose , and dyed the grass 
a deep dark red, as he staggered and fell. He had ruptured a 
blood vessel : and he was a dead man before his son could raise 

him from that thick , sluggish , pool. 

* * * * * * 

“ In that corner of the churchyard ,” said the old gentleman, 
after a silence of a few moments, “ In that corner of the church- 
yard of which I have before spoken , there lies buried a man , 
who was in my employment for three years after this event : and 
who was truly contrite , penitent , and humbled, if ever man was. 
No one save myself knew in that man’s life-time who he was 
or whence he came : — it was John Edmunds, the returned 
convict.” 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 


73 


CHAPTER VHL 

HOW MB. WINKLE, INSTEAD OF 8HOOTING AT THE P1GI0N AND KILLING THE CROW, 

8HOT AT THE CROW AND WOUNDED THE PIGEON J HOW THEDINGLEY DELL CRICKET 

CLUB, PLAYED AJX-MUGGLETON , AND IipW >LL-MI?GQLETON DINED AT THE DINGLEY 

DELL EXPENSE : WITH OTHER INTERESTING AND INSTRUCTIVE MATTERS. 

• S * L ^ T , ■ , i r * * 

The. fatiguing adventures of the dayv or the somniferous in- 
fluence of the clergyman’s tale, operated so strongly on the 
drowsy tendencies of Mr. Pickwick, that, in less than five 
minutes after he had been shown to his. comfortable bed-room, 
he fell into a sound and dreamless deep , from which /he was 
only awakened by the morning sun darting his bright beftms 
reproachfully into the apartment. Mr. Pickwick was no sluggard ; 
and he sprang like an ardent warrior from his tent — bedstead. 

“ Pleasant , pleasant country,” sighed the enthusiastic gentle- 
man , as he opened his lattice window. ‘ ‘ Who could live to gaze 
from day to day on bricks and slates , who had once felt the 
influence of a scene like this ? Who could continue to exist , 
where there are no cows but the cows on the chimney-pots; 
nothing redolent of Pan but pan-tiles ; no crop but stone crop ? 
Who could bear to drag out a life in such a spot? Who I ask 
could endure it?” and, having cross-examined solitude after 
the most approved precedents , at considerable length , Mr. Pick- 
wick thrust his head out of the lattice , and looked around him. 

The rich , sweet smell of the hay-ricks rose to his chamber 
window : the hundred perfumes of the little flower-garden 
beneath scented the air around ; the deep-green meadows shone 
in the morning dew that glistened on every leaf as it trembled in 
the gentle air ; and the birds sang as if every sparkling drop 
were to them a fountain of inspiration. Mr. Pickwick fell into 
an enchanting and delicious reverie. 

“ Hallo!” was the sound that roused him. 

He looked to the right, but he saw nobody ; his eyes wandered 
to the left, and pierced the prospect ; he stared into the sky, but 
he wasn’t wanted there ; and then he did what a common mind 
would have done at once — looked into the garden, and there 
saw Mr. Wardle. 

“ How are you?” said that good-humoured individual , out of 
breath with his own anticipations of pleasure. “ Beautiful morn- 
ing , ain’t it ? Glad to see you up so early. Make haste down , 
and come out. I’ll wait for you here.” 

Mr. Pickwick needed no second invitation. Ten minutes suf- 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



74 


POSTHUMOUS PAPBRS 


ficed for theoompletion of Ws toilet ;>and at tbe expiration of 
that time he was by the oM gentleman’s side. - 

“ Hade ! ” said Mn Pickwick in his tom : seeing that his com- 
panion was armed with a gun j and that another lay ready on 
the grass. “ What’s going forward ? " 

“ Why, your friend and I replied the host , M are going out 
rook-shooting before breakfast. He’s a very good shot, ain’t he?” 

“ I’ve heard him say he’s a capital one ,” replied Mr. Pick- 
wick; “ but I never saw him aim at anything.” 

“ Weft ,” said the host , i wish he’d come. Joe— Joe.” 

The fat boy, who under the exciting influence of the morning 
did not-appear to be more than three parts anda fraction asleep, 
emerged from the house. 

“ 4>oup , and can the gentleman , and tell him he’ 11 find me 
and Mr. Piekwick in the rookery. Show the gentleman the way 
there; d’ye hear?” ■ *- 

The boy departed to execute his commission; and' tWehost , 
carrying both guns like a second Robinson Crusoe , led the Way 
from the garden. ‘ 

“ This is the place ,” said the old gentleman , pausing after a 
few minutes walking , in an avenue of trees. The information 
was unnecessary; for the incessant cawing of the unconscious 
rooks, sufficiently indicated their whereabout. 

The old gentleman laid one gun on the ground , and loaded 
the other. 

“ Here they are,” said Mr. Piekwick; and as he spoke, the 
forms of Mr. Tupman , Mr. Snodgrass , and Mr. Winkle ap- 
peared in the distance. The fat boy, not being quite Certain 
which gentleman he was directed to call, had with' peculiar 
sagacity, and to prevent the possibility of any mistake , CaHed 
them all. 

“ Gome along,” shouted the old gentleman, addressing Ml*. 
Winkle ; “ a keen hand like you ought to have been up- long 
ago , even to such poor work as this.” 

Mr. Winkle responded with a forced smile , and took up the 
spare gun with an expression of countenance which a metaphy- 
sical rook, impressed with a foreboding of his approaching 
death by violence, may be supposed to assume. It might have 
been keenness , but it looked remarkably like misery. 

The old gentleman nodded; and two ragged boys who- had 
, been marshalled to the spot under the direction of the infant 
f 1 Lambert , forthwith commenced climbing up two of the trees. ~ 
■ “ What are those latjs for ? ” inquired Mr. Pickwick abruptly. 

He was rather alarmed ; for he was not quite certain but that the 
distress of the agricultural interest , about which he had often 
heard a great deal , might have compelled the small boys , at- 


Digitized by 


Google 



OP THB PICKWICK CLUB. 75 

tached to the soil, to earn a precarious and hazardous subsistence 
by making marks of themselves for inexperienced sportsmen. /* 

“ Only to start the game,” replied Mr. Wardle , laughing. 

“ To what? ” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Why, in plain English to frighten the rooks.” 

“Oh! Is that all?” 

“ You are satisfied ? ” 

“ Quite.” 

“ Very well. Shall I begin? ” 

“ If you please ,” said Mr. Winkle , glad of any respite. 

“ Stand aside , then. Now for it.” 

The boy shouted , and shook a branch with a nest on it. 
Half a dozen young rooks in violent conversation , flew out to 
ask what the matter was. The old gentleman fired by way of 
reply. Down fell one bird , and off flew the others. 

“ Take him up , Joe ,” said the old gentleman. 

There was a smile upon the youth’s face as he advanced. In- 
distinct visions of rook-pie floated through his imagination. He 
laughed as he retired with the bird — it was a plump 1 one. 

“ Now, Mr. Winkle ,” said the host , reloading his own gun. 

“ Fire away.” 

Mr. Winkle advanced , and levelled bis gun. Mr. Pickwick 
and his friends cowered involuntarily to escape damage from the 
heavy fall of rooks , which they felt quite certain would be oc- 
casioned by the devastating barrel of their friend. There was a 
solemn pause — a shout — a flapping of wings— a faint cfick. 

“ Hallo! ” said the old gentleman. 

“ Won’t it go? ” inquired Mr. Pickwiok. 

“ Missed fire,” said Mr. Winkle, who was very pale, prob- 
ably from disappointment. 

“ Odd ,” said the old gentleman , taking the gun. “ Never 
knew one of them miss fire before. Why, I don’t see anything 
of the cap.” 

“ Bless my soul ,” said Mr. Winkle , “ I declare I forgot the 
cap ! ” 

The slight omission was rectified. Mr, Pickwick crouched 
again. Mr. Winkle stepped forward with an air of determination 
and resolution ; and Mr. Tupman looked out from behind a tree. 
The boy shouted ; — four birds flew out , Mr. Winkle fired. 
There Was a scream as of an individual — not a rook — in cor- 
poreal anguish. Mr. Tupman had saved the lives of innumer- 
able unoffending birds , by receiving a portion of the charge 
in his left arm. 

To describe the confusion that ensued would be impossible. 

To tell how Mr. Pickwick in the first transports of his emotion 
called Mr. Winkle “ Wretch! ” how Mr. Tupman lay prostrate 


Digitized by 


Google 



76 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

on -the ground; and how Mr. Winkle ‘knelt horror-stricken 
beside him ; how Mr. Tupman called distractedly upon some fe- 
minine Christian name , and lheh opened first orie eye , and then 
the other, et then fell back and shut them both ; — all this would 
be as difficult to describe in detail , as it would be to depict the 
gradual recovering of the unfortilnate individual, the binding 
up his arm with pocket-handkerchiefs , and the conveying him 
back by slow degrees , supported by the arms of his anxious 
friends. ‘ 

They drew near the hou&e. The ladies were at the garden- 
gate , waiting for their arrival and their breakfast. The Spinster 
aunt appeared ; she smiled , and beckoned them to walk quicker. 
Twas evident she knew not of the disaster. Poor thing ! 1 There 
are times when ignorance is bliss indeed. 

They approached hearer: *“ 

“ Why, what is the matter with the little old gentleman ?” 
said, Isabella Wardle. The spinster aunt heeded not the re- 
mark ; she thought it applied to Mr. Pickwick. In her eyes Tracy 
Tupman was a youth ; she viewed his years through a diminish- 
ing glass. 

“ Don’t be frightened called out the old host fearful of alarm- 
ing his daughters. The little party had crowded so completely 
round Mr. Tupman , that they could not yet clearly discern the 
nature of the accident. 

“ Don’t be frightened ,” said the host. 

“ What’s the matter?” screamed the ladies. 

“ Mr. Tupman has met with a little accident ; that’s all.” 

The spinster aunt uttered a piercing scream , burst into an 
hysteric laugh , and fell backwards in the arms of her nieces. 

“ Throw some cold water over her,” said the old gentleman. 

“ No, no,” murmured the spin. ter aunt; “ I am better now. 
Bella , Emily — a surgeon ! Is he wounded? — Is he dead ? — Is 

he -ha, ha, ha!” Here the spinster aunt burst into fit 

number two, of hysteric laughter, interspersed with screams. 

“ Calm yourself,” said Mr. Tupman, affected almost to tears 
by this expression of sympathy with his sufferings. “ Dear, 
dear madam , calm yourself.” 

“It is his voice!” exclaimed the spinster aunt; and strbhg 
symptoms of fit number three developed themselves forthwith. 

“ Do not agitate yourself, I entreat you, dearest madam ,” 
said Mr. Tupman , sootMttgly. “ I aiffr^ery little hurt, I assure 
y°u.” , 

“ Then you arenot <fead!” i (Sj4 / dilated '(he hysterical fady. 
“ Oh, say you »are not *dead ’’ V ’?’ 1 

“ Don’t be a tfoolV ’RachUfel ^itifeffidsed^iy. 'WArdlbi rather 
more rougbfy than was fffiite 1 'Coftteislent With tll^ poetic nature 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF TBB PICKWICK CLUB. 77 

of the scene. “ Wb*t tbeideyil’stbe.use ofhis tarydng he isn’t 
dead?” . ,t , .1 i , ? i ■ r t * > i .i- 

“ No, no, I am not,” said .Miy Tupman. “ I require no as- 
sistance but yours. Let me lean on your arm ,” he added , in a 
whisper, “ oh, Miss Rachael! ” The, agitated female advanced , 
and offered her arm. They turned into the breakfast parlour. 
Mr. Tracy Tupman gently pressed her hand to his lips , and sank 
upon the sofa. 

“ Are you faint?” inquired the anxious Rachael. 

“ No ,” said Mr. Tupman. It is, nothing* I shall bo better 

presently.” He closed his eyes.,. 

“ He sleeps ,” murmured the spinster aunt* (His organs of 
vision had been closed nearly twenty seconds.) “iDear — dear 
— Mr. Tupman.” , > .m 

Mr. Tupman jumped up — “ Oh , say those words again ! ” he 

exclaimed. , . i ; ... 

The lady started. “ Surely you did not hear them ! ” she said , 
bashfully. 

“ Qh yes, I did! ” replied Mr. Tupman ; “ repeat them. If you 
would have me recover, repeat them.” 

“ Hush ! ” said the lady. “ My brother.” 

Mr. Tracy Tupman resumed his former position ; and 
Mr. Wardle accompanied by a surgeon , entered the room. " 

The arm was examined , the wound dressed , and pronounced 
to be a very slight one-, and the minds of the company having 
been thus satisfied , they proceeded to satisfy their appetites with 
countenances to which an expression of cheerfulness was again 
restored. Mr. Pickwick alone was silent and reserved. Doubt 
and distrust were exhibited in his countenance. His confidence 
in Mr. Winkle had been shaken greatly shaken — by the pro- 
ceedings of the morning. , 

“ Are you a cricketer? ” inquired Mr. Wardle of ih e marksm an . c 

At any other time, Mr. Winkle would have replied in the affir- 
mative. He felt the delicacy of his situation, and modestly replied, 
“No.” 

“ Are you , sir ?” inquired Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ I was once upon a time,” replied the host; “ but I have 
given it up now. I subscribe to the club here , but I don’t play.” 

“ The grand match is played to-day, I believe ,” said Mr. Pick- 
wick. 

“It is,,” replied the host. “Of course you would like to 
see it.” 

“I, sir,” replied Mr. Pickwick, “ am delighted to view any 
sports which may be safely indulged in, and ip which the impo- 
tent .effe cts of unskilful peop le do not endanger human life.” 
Mr. Pickwick paused , aiid looked steadily on Mr. Winkle, Who 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



78 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

t quailed beneath his leader’s searching glahce. The great man 
/ withdrew his eyes after a few minutes, and added : “ Shall we 
' be justified in leaving (Sir - wounded friend to the cate of the 
ladies?” 

“ You cannot leave me in better hands,” said Mr. Tupman. 

“ Quite impossible ,” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

It was therefore settled that Mr. Tupman should be left at 
home in charge of the females ; and that the remainder of the 
guests under the guidance of Mr. Wardle should proceed to the 
spot , where was to be held that trial of skill , which had roused 
All-Muggleton from its torpor, and inoculated Dingley Dell with 
a fever of excitement. 

As their waltyf which was not above two miles long, lay through 
shady lanes , and sequestered footpaths ; and as their conversa- 
tion turned upon the delightful scenery by which they were on 
every side surrounded , Mr. Pickwick was almost inclined to 
regret the expedition they had used , when he found himself in 
the main street of the town of Muggleton. 

Everybody whose genius has a topographical bent , knows 
perfectly well, that Muggleton is a corporate town, with a 
mayor, burgesses, and freemen ; and anybody who has consulted 
the addresses of the mayor to the freemen , or the freemen to the 
mayor, or both to the corporation , or kll three to Parliament , 
will learn from thence what they ought to have known before , 
that Muggleton is an ancient and loyal borough, mingling a 
zealous advocacy of Christian principles with a devoted attach- 
ment to commercial rights; in demonstration whereof, the 
mayor, corporation , and other inhabitants , have presented at 
divers times, no fewer than one thousand four hundred and 
twenty petitions, agaiiist the continuance of negro slavery 
abroad, and an equal number against any interference with the 
factory system at home ; sixty-eight for permitting the sale of 
benefices in the church, and eighty-six for abolishing Sunday 
trading in the streets. 

Mr. Pickwick stood in the principal street of this illustrious 
town , and gazed with an air of curiosity not unmixed with in- 
terest, on the objects around him. There was an open square for 
the market-place ; and in the centre of it, a large inn with a sign- 
post in front, displaying an object very common in art, but rare- 
ly met with in nature — to wit, a blue lion with three bow legs 
in the air, balancing himself on the extreme point of the centre 
claw of his fourth foot. There were, within sight, an auctioneer's 
and fire-agency office, a corhdactor’S, a linen draper’s, a sad- 
dler’s, a distiller’s ,' a grocer’s , and >a shoe shop — the last-men- 
tioned warehouse being also appropriated to thediffusion of hats, 
bonnets, wearing apparel, cotton umbrellas, and useful know- 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CtUB. 79 

ledge. There was a red-brick house with a small paved court- 
yard in front, which anybody might have known belonged to the 
attorney : and there was, moreover, another red-brick house 
with Venetian blinds , and a large brass door-plate , with a very 
legible announcement that it belonged to the surgeon. A few 
boys were making their way to the cricket-field ; and two or three 
shopkeepers who were standing at their doors, looked as if they 
should like to be making their way to the same spot , as indeed 
to all appearance they might have done, without losing any great 
amount of custom thereby. Mr. Pickwick having paused to make 
these observations, to be noted down at a more convenient pe- 
riod, hastened to rejoin his friends , who had turned out of the 
main street, and were already within sight of the field of battle. 

The wickets were pitched, and so were a couple of marquees 
for the rest and refreshment of the contending parties. The game 
had not yet commenced. Two or three Dingley Dellers, and 
All-Muggletonians , were amusing themselves with a majestic 
air by throwing the ball carelessly from hand to hand ; and se- 
veral other gentlemen dressed like them , in straw bats , flannel 0 
jackets, and white trousers , — a costume in which they looked 
very much like amateur stone-masons — were sprinkled about 
the tents, towards one of which Mr. Wardle conducted the party. 

Several dozen of “ How-are-you’s?” hailed the old gentleman’s 
arrival ; and a general raising of the straw hats, and bending for- 
ward of the flannel jackets, followed his introduction ofhis guests 
as gentlemen from London, who were extremely anxious to wit- 
ness the proceedings of the day, with which, he had no doubt, 
they would be greatly delighted. 

“ You had better step- into the marquee, I think, sir,” said one 
very stout gentleman, whoso body and legs looked like half a 
gigantic roll of flannel, elevated on a couple of inflated pillow- 
cases^. 

“ You’ll And it much pleasanter sir,” urged another stout 
gentleman , who strongly resembled the other half of the roK of 
flannel aforesaid. 

“ You’re very good ,” said Mr. Pickwick, 

“ This way,” said the first speaker ; “ they noleh in here — 
ik’euthe best place in the whole field 5 ” and- the cricketer, panting 
on before, preceded them to thc tent. 

Capital game — smart sport — fine exercise — very,” were 
the words which ftllupoivMr. Pickwiekta ear as he entered the 
tent ; and the first object that met his eyes, was his green-coated 
friend ofltbe Rochester coach , 1 holding forthyto the no small de- 
light asd edification ofaselecfccircleof the chosen 'Of All-Mug- 
, fife dress-waft slightly unproved, and.hewore boots ; but 
there was no mistaking him. • < 




Digitized by v^.ooQle 



80 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

The strangetrecognised his friends immediately : and, darting 
forward and seizing Mr. Pickwick by the hand, dragged him to 
a seat, with his usual impetuosity, talking all the while as if the 
whole of the arrangements were under his especial patronage 
and direction. 

“This way — this way — capital fun — lots of beer — hogs- 
heads, rounds of beef— bullocks; mustard — cart loads; glo- 
rious-day— downwith you.— make yourself at home — glad to 
see yop— very.” 

Mr. Pickwick sat down -as he was bid, and Mr. Winkle and 
Mr. Snodgrass also complied with the directions of their mys- 
terious friend. Mr. Wardle, looked on, in silent wonder. 

“ Mr, Wardle — a friend of mine,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

V Friend of yours ! — My dear sir, how are you? — Friend of 
my, friend’s — give me your hand , sir ” — and the stranger grasped 
Mr. Wardle’s hand with all the fervour of a close intimacy of 
-many years, and then stepped back a pace or two as if to take a 
full survey of his face and figure, and then shook hands with him 
t again, if possible, more warmly than before. 

“ Well ; and how came you here? ” said Mr. Pickwick, with a 
smile in which benevolence struggled with Surprise. 

“ Come,” replied the stranger — “ stoppkg at Crown— Crown 
at Muggleton — met a party— flannel jacftfc — while trousers 
— anchovy sandwiches — devilled kidneys .—splendid fellows — 
glorious.” 

Mr. Pickwick was sufficiently versed in the stranger’s system 
of stenography to infer from this rapid and disjointed communi- 
cation that he had , somehow or other, contracted an acquain- 
tance vvith the All-Muggletons , which he had converted, by a 
process peculiar to himself , into that extentyof good fellowship 
on which a general invitation may be easily founded. His curio- 
sity was therefore satisfied, and putting on his spectacles he pre- 
pared himself to watch the play which was just commencing. 

Afi-Muggleton had the first innings ; and the interest became 
intense when Mr. Dumkins and Mr. Podder, two of the most 
renowned members of that most distinguished club , walked, bat 
in hand, to their respective wickets. Mr. Luffey, the highest or- 
nament of Oingley Dell, was pitched to bowl against the redoubt- 
able Dumkins, and Mr. Struggles was selected to do the same 
kind office for the hitherto unconquered Podder. Several players 
were stationed, to “ look out,” in different parts of the field, and 
each fixed himself into the proper attitude by placing one hand 
on each knee, and stooping very much as if he were “ making a 
back” for some beginner at leap-frog. All the regular players do 
I this sort of thing ; — indeed it’s generally supposed that it is quite, 
- impossible to look out properly in any other position. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 81 

•The umpires were stationed behind the wickets ; the scorers 
were prepared to notch the runs; a breathless silence ensued. 
Mr. Luffey retired a few paces behind the wicket of the passive 
Podder, and applied the ball to his right eye for several seconds. 
Dumkins confidently awaited its coming, with his eyes fixed on 
the motions of Luffey. 

“ Play,” suddenly cried the bowler. The ball flew from his 
hand straight and swift towards the centre stump of the wicket. 
The wary Dumkins was on the alert; it fellupon the tip of the 
bat, and bounded far away over the heads of the scouts, who had 
just stooped low enough to let it fly over them. . 

“Run — run — another. — Now, then, throw her up— ‘up 
with her — stop there — another — no — yes — no — throw her 
up, throw her up.” — Such were the shouts which followed the 
stroke; and, at the conclusion of which, All-Muggleton had 
scored two. Nor was Podder behind-hand in earning laurels 
wherewith to garnish himself and Muggleton. He blocked the 
doubtful balls, missed the bad ones, took the good ones, and sent 
them flying to all parts of the field. The scouts were 'hot and 
tired ; the bowlers were changed and bowled till their arms ached; 
but Dumkins and Podder remained unconquered. Did an elderly 
gentleman essay to stop the progress of the ball, it rolled between 
his legs, or slipped between his fingers. Did a slim gentleman 
try to catch it, it struck him on the nose, and bounded pleasantly 
off with redoubled violence , while the slim gentleman’s eyes filled 
with water, and his form writhed with anguish. Was it thrown 
straight up to the wicket, Dumkins had reached it before the ball. 
In short, when Bumkins was caught out, and Podder stumped 
out, All-Muggleton had notched some fifty-four, while the score 
of the Dingley Defiers was as blank as their faces. The advan- 
tage was too greatlo be recovered. In vain did the eager Luffey, 
and the enthusiastic Struggles, do all that skill and experience 
could suggest, to regain the ground Dingley Dell had lost in the 
contest; — it was of no avail ; and in an early period of the win- 
ning game Dingley Dell gave in, and allowed the superior prowess 
of All-Muggleton. 

The stranger, meanwhile, had been eating, drinking, and 
talking, without cessation. At every good stroke he expressed 
his satisfaction and approval of the play er in a most condescend- 
ing and patronising manner, which cOuld not fail to have been 
highly gratifying to the party concerned ; while at every bad at- 
tempt at a catch, and every failure to atop the ball, he launched 
his personal displeasure at the* head 'ofthodevoted individual in 
such denunciations as r— “Ah pah !— stupid” — “ Now butter- 
fingers ‘ “ Moff’iW* ‘Humbug ” and so forth — ejaculations 
which seemed do : establish him in the opinion of all round , as a 

i. 6 


Digitized by v^ooQle 



POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


82 

most excellent and undeniable judge of the whole art and mys 
tery of the noble game of cricket. 

“ Capital game — well played — some strokes admirable,” said 
the stranger as both sides crowded into the tent , at the conclu- 
sion of the game. 

“ You have played it, sir?” inquired Mr. Wardle, who had 
been much amused by his loquacity. 

‘ 4 Played it ! Think I have — thousands of times — not here — 
West Indies — exciting thing — hot work — very.” 

“ It must be rather a warm pursuit in such a climate ,” ob- 
served Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Warm ! — red hot — scorching — glowing. Played a match 
once — single wicket— friend the colonel — Sir Thomas Blazo 
—who should get the greatest number of runs. — Won the toss 

— first innings — seven o’clock, A. M. — six natives to look out 

— went in ; kept in — heat intense — natives all fainted — taken 
away — fresh half dozen ordered — fainted also — Blazo bowling 
— supported by two natives — couldn’t bowl me out — fainted 
too — cleared away the colonel — wouldn’t give in — faithful at- 
tendant — Quanko Samba — last man left — sun so hot , bat in 
blisters , ball scorched brown — five hundred and seventy runs 

— rather exhausted — Quanko mustered up last remaining 
strength — bowled me out — had abath, and went out to dinner.” 

“ And what became of what’s-his-name, sir?” inquired an old 
gentleman. 

“Blazo?” 

“ No — the other gentleman.” 

“ Quanko Samba? ” 

“Yes, sir." 

“ Poor Quanko — never recovered it — bowled on, on my ac- 
count — bowled off, on his own — died, sir.” Here the stranger 
buried his countenance in a brown jug, but whether to hide his 
emotion or imbibe its contents , we cannot distinctly affirm. We 
only know that he paused suddenly, drew a long and deep 
breath , and looked anxiously on , as two of the principal mem- 
bers of the Dingley Dell club approached Mr. Pickwick, and said : 

“ We are about to partake of a plain dinner at the Blue Lion, 
sir ; we hope you and your friends will join us.” 

“ Of course ,” said Mr. Wardle, “ among our friends we in- 
clude Mr. ; ” and he looked towards the stranger. 

“Single,” said that versatile gentleman, taking the hint at 
once. “ Jingle — Alfred Jingle , Esq., of No Hall, Nowhere.” 

“ I shall be very happy, I am sure,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

‘ ‘ So shall I ,” said Mr. Alfred Jingle, drawing one arm through 
Mr. Pickwick’s, and another through Mr. Wardle’s, as he whis- 
pered confidentially in the ear of the former gentleman : — ’ 


Digitized by 


y Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 


“ Devilish good dinner — cold , but capital — peeped into the 
room this morning — fowls and pies , and all that sort of thing 
— pleasant fellows these — well behaved, too — very.” 

There being no further preliminaries to arrange, the company 
straggled into the town in little knots of twos and threes ; and 
within a quarter of an hour were all seated in the great room of 
the Blue Lion Inn Muggleton — Mr. Dumkins acting as chair- 
man, and Mr. Luffey officiating as vice. 

There was a vast deal of talking and rattling of knives and 
forks, and plates : a great running about of three ponderous 
headed waiters, and a rapid disappearance of the substantial 
viands on the table ; to each and every of which item of confu- v 

sion, the facetious Mr. Jingle lent the aid of half-a-dozen ordinary / 
men at least. When everybody had eat as much as they could , 
the cloth was removed, bottles, glassei^ and dessert were placed 
on the table; and the waiters withdrew to “ clear away,” or in 
other words, to appropriate to their own private use and emolu- 
ment , whatever remnants of the* eatables and drinkables they 
could contrive to lay their hands on. 

Amidst the general hum of mirth and conversation that en- 
sued, there was a little man with a puffy Say- no thing-to-me , -[ 
or-I’ll-contradict-you sort of countenance, who remaine3"veryj 
“quiet; “occa'sionallylboking round him when the conversation 
slackened, as if he contemplated putting in something very 
weighty : and now and then bursting into a short cough of 
inexpressible grandeur. At length, during a moment of compa- 
rative silence, the little man called out in a very loud, solemn 
voice, 

“ Mr. Luffey.” 

Everybody was hushed into a profound stillness as the indi- 
vidual addressed , replied , 

“ Sir.” 

“ I wish to address a few words to you, sir, if you will entreat 
the gentlemen to fill their glasses.” 

Mr. Jingle uttered a patronising “ hear, hear,” which was 
responded to, by the remainder of the company : and the glasses 
having been filled, the vice-president assumed an air of wisdom 
in a state of profound attention ; and said , 

“Mr. Staple.” 

“ Sir,” said the little man, rising, “ I wish to address what I 
have to say to you and not to our worthy chairman , because 
our worthy chairman is in some measure — I may say in a great 
degree — the subject of what I have to say , or I may say 
to — to — 

“ State,” suggested Mr. Jingle. 

— “ Yes, to state ” said the little man ; “ I thank my honour- 



84 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

able friend, if he will allow me to call him so — (four hears, and 
one certainly from Mr. Jingle) — for the suggestion. Sir, I am 
a Deller-^— a Dingly Deller, (cheene.) I cannot lay claim to the 
honour of forming an item in the population of Muggleton ; nor, 
sir, I will frankly admit , do I covet that honour : and I will tell 
you why, sir, (hear;) to Muggleton I will readily concede all 
those honours and distinctions to which it can fairly lay claim 
— they are too numerous and too well known to require aid or 
recapitulation from me. But, sir, while we remember that Mug- 
gleton has given birth to a Dumkins and a Podder, let us never 
forget that Dingley Dell can boast a Luffey and a Struggles. 
(Vociferous cheering.) Let me not be considered as wishing to 
dettatet’ from the merits of the former gentlemen. Sir, I envy 
them the luxury of their own feelings, on this occasion. (Cheers.) 
Every gentleman who hears me, is probably acquainted with 
the reply made by an individual , who — to use an ordinary 
figure of speech — * hung out’ in a tub, to the emperor Alexan- 
der : — ‘ If I were not Diogenes , ’ said he, * I would be Alexan- 
der.’ I can well imagine these gentlemen to say, ‘ If I were not 
Dumkins I would be Luffey •, if I were not Podder I would be 
Struggles.’ (Enthusiasm.) But, gentlemen of Muggleton, is it in 
cricket alone that your fellow-townsmen stand pre-eminent? 
Have you never heard of Dumkins and determination? Have 
you never been taught to associate Podder with property? 
(Great applause.) Have you never, when struggling for your 
rights , your liberties, and your privileges, been reduced, if only 
for an instant, to misgiving and despair? And when you have 
been thus depressed , has not the name of Dumkins laid afresh 
within your breast , the fire which had just gone out ; and has 
not a word from that man , lighted it again as brightly as if it 
had never expired ? (Great cheering.) Gentlemen, I beg you 
to surround with a rich halo of enthusiastic cheering, the united 
names of * Dumkins and Podder.’ 

Herj; the little man ceased, and here the company commenced 
a raising of voices, and thumping of tables, which lasted with 
little intermission during the remainder of the evening. Other 
toasts were drunk. Mr. Luffey and Mr. Struggles, Mr. Pickwick 
and Mr. Jingle, were, each in his turn, the subject of unqualified 
eulogium; and each in due course returned thanks for the 
honour. 

Enthusiastic as we are in the noble cause to which we have 
devoted ourselves, we should have felt a sensation of pride 
which we cannot express , and a consciousness of having done 
something to merit immortality of which we are now deprived , 
could we have laid tlie faintest outline of these addresses before 
our ardent readers. Mr. Snodgrass, as usual, took a great mass 


Digitized by 


Gc ^le 

Mild 




OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 85 

of notes , which would no doubt have afforded most useful and 
valuable information , had not the burning eloquence of the 
word? or the feverish influence of the wine made that gentle- 
man’s hand so extremely unsteady, as to render his writing 
nearly unintelligible, and his style wholly so. By dint of patient 
investigation , we have been enabled to trace some characters 
bearing a faint resemblance to the names of the speakers; and 
we can also discern an entry of a song (supposed to have been 
sung by Mr. Jingle,) in which the words “ bowl ” “sparkling” 

“ ruby ” “ bright,” and “ wine ” are frequently repeated at.shpjjt 
intervals. We fancy too, that we can discern at the, very end of , 
the notes, some indistinct reference to “broiled bones;” and f 
then the words “cold” “without” occur :,but as any frypq thesis ■ 
we could found upon them must -necessarily rest qpon.ipere 
conjecture, we are not disposed to indulge in any of the specu-, 
lations to which they may give rise. 

We will therefore return to Mr. Tupman; merely adding that 
within some few minutes before twelve o’clock that night, the 
convocation of worthies of Dingley Dell and Muggleton , were 
heard to sing with great feeling and emphasis, the beautiful and 
pathetic national air, of 

We won't go home 'till morning , 

We won’t go home 'tHl morning , 

We won’t go home ’till morning , 

’Till day-light doth appear. 


CHAPTER IX. 

STRONGLY ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE POSITION , THAT THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE IS 
NOT A RAILWAY. 

The quiet seclusion of Dingley Dell , the presence of so many 
of the gentler sex , and the solicitude and anxiety they evinced 
in his behalf, were all favourable to the growth and development 
of those softer feelings which nature had implanted deep in the 
bosom of Mr. Tracy Tupman , and which now appeared destined 
to centre in one lovely object. The young ladies were pretty, 
their manners winning , their dispositions unexceptionable ; but 
there was a dignity in the air, a touch-me-not-ish ness in the } 
.walk, a majesty in the eye of the spinster aunt, to which, at 
their time of life , they could lay no claim , which distinguished 
her from any female on whom Mr. Tupman had ever gazed. 
That there was something kindred in their nature, something 
congenial in their souls, something mysteriously sympathetic in. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



86 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

their bosoms , was evident Her name was the first that rose to 
Mr. Tupman’s lips as he lay wounded on the grass , and her 
hysteric laughter was the first sound that fell upon his ear, when 
he was supported to the house. But had her agitation arisen from 
an amiable and feminine sensibility which would have been 
equally irrepressible in any case ; or had it been called forth by a 
more ardent and passionat^Pjng > which he, of all men living, 
could alone awaken? These were the doubts which racked his 
brain as he lay extended on the sofa : these were the doubts which 
he determined should be at once and for ever resolved. 

It was evening. Isabella and Emily had strolled out with 
Mr. Trundle; the deaf old lady had fallen asleep in her chair ; 
the snoring of the fat boy penetrated in a low and monotonous 
sound from the distant kitchen ; the buxom servants were loung- 
ing at the side-door, enjoying the pleasantness of the hour, and 
the delights of a flirtation, on first principles, with certain 
unwieldy animats attached to the farm ; and there sat the interest- 
ing pair, uncared for by all , caring for none , and dreaming only 
of themselves : there they sat , in short , like a pair of carefully- 
folded kid-gloves — bound up in each other. 

“ I have forgotten my flowers ,” said the spinster aunt. 

“ Water them now,” said Mr. Tupman , in accents of per- 
suasion. 

“ You will take cold in the evening air,” urged the spinster 
aunt, affectionately. 

“ No , no ,” said Mr. Tupman , rising ; “ it will do me good. 
Let me accompany you.” 

The lady paused to adjust the sling in which the left arm of 
the youth was placed, and taking his right arm led him to 
the garden. 

There was a bower at the further end , with honeysuckle , 

/ jessamine, and creeping plants — one of those sweet retreats , 
/ which humane men erect for the accommodation of spiders. 
t The spinster aunt took up a large wafering-pot which Tay In 
one corner, and was about to leave the arbour. Mr. Tupman 
detained her, and drew her to a seat beside him. 

“ Miss Wardle ! ” said he. 

The spinster aunt trembled , till some pebbles which had ac- 
cidentally found their way into the large watering-pot , shook 
like an infant’s rattle. 

“ Miss Wardle ,” said Mr. Tupman , “ you are £n angel.” 

“ Mr. Tupman ! ” exclaimed Rachael , blushing as fed as., the 
watering-pot itself. ' ’ 

“ Nay ,” said the eloquent Pickwickian — “I know it but 
too well.” ; ;-K 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 87 

“All women' are angels, they say,” murmured the lady, 
k playfully. 

“ Then what can you be ; or to what , \yithont presumption. , f €\ 
can I compare you? ” replied Mr. Tup mail. “ Where was the 
woman ever seen, who resembled you? Where else could I 
hope to find so rare a combination of excellence and beauty? 
Where else could I seek to — -Oq^Here Mr. Tupman paused, 
and pressed the hind which clasped the handle of the happy 
watering-pot. * 

The lady turned aside her head. “ Men are such deceivers ,” 
she softly whispered. 

“ They are, they are ,” ejaculated Mr. Tupman ; “ but not all 
men. There lives at least one being who can never change — 
one being who would be content to devote his whole existence 
to your happiness — who lives but in your eyes — who breathes 
but in your smiles — who bears the heavy burden of life itself 
only for you.” 

“ Could such an individual be found said the lady 

“ But he can be found ,” said the ardent Mr. Tupman , inter- 
posing. “He is found. He is here, Miss Wardle.” And ere the 
lady was aware of his intention , Mr. Tupman had sunk upon his 
knees at her feet. 

“ Mr. Tupman , rise ,” said Rachael. 

“ Never! ” was the valorous reply. “ Oh , Rachael! ” — He 
seized her passive hand, and the watering-pot fell to the 
ground as he pressed it to his lips. — “ Oh, Rachael! say you 
love me.” 

“ Mr. Tupman ,” said the spinster aunt, with averted head — 
“lean hardly speak the words ; but — but — you are not wholly 
indifferent to me.” 

Mr. Tupman no sooner heard this avowal , than he proceeded 
to do what his enthusiastic emotions prompted , and what, for 
aught we know, ( for we are but little acquainted with such 
matters,) people so circumstanced always do. He jumped up, 
and, throwing his arm round the neck of the spinster aunt, 
imprinted upon her lips numerous kisses , which after a due show 
of struggling and resistanae , she received so passively, that there 
is no telling how many more Mr. Tupman might have bestowed, 
if the lady had not given a very unaffected start and exclaimed 
in an affrighted tone , — 

“ Mr. Tupman , we are observed ! — we are discovered ! ” 

Mr. Tupman looked round. There, was the fat boy, perfectly 
motionless , with his large circular eyes staring into the arbour, 
but without the slightest expression on his face that the most 
expert physiognomist could have referred to astonishment, 
curiosity, or any other known passion that agitates the human 


Digitized by Google 



88 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

breast.' Mr. Tupman gazed on the ■fat boy, and the fefcboy stared 
at him ; and the longer Mr. Tuprtiaa observed the-utter vacancy 
of the fat bhy’s countenance , the more convinced he became that 
he either did not know*:or>did not understand , anything that 
had been going forward. .Underthis impressidnyhe said with 
great firmness , — • • •••* !>„• s •> n »••• ■ 

‘VWbat do you want .hew , ait V! * •.i-nov* ..U jo- ; . - • 

Supports ready, sit;”, was the prompt reply; 11 • 

•“ Have you;j ust come here, sir??’ inquired M*- Tuptnati* with 
a piercing look. 

“ Just,” replied the fiat boy. . • . 

Mr. Tupman looked at him very hard again; but there was 
not a wink in his eye , or a curve in his fafee. - 

Mr. Tupman took the arm of the spinster aunt*, and walked 
towards the house; the fiat boy followed behind. ■ . - >■ 

“ He knows nothing of what has happened,” he whispered. 

*< Nothing,” said the spinster aunt. 

There was a sound behind them , as of an imperfectly sup- 
pressed chuckle. Mr. Tupman turned sharply round. No; it 
could not have been the fat boy ; there was not a gleam of mirtb , 
or anything but feeding in his whole visage. 

“ He must have been fast asleep whispered Mr. Tupman. 

“ I have not the least doubt of it,” replied the spinster aunt. 

They both laughed heartily. 

Mr. Tupman was wrong. The fat boy, for once, had not 
been fast asleep. Ho was awake — wide awake— to what had 
been going forward. 

The supper passed off without any attempt at a general con- 
versation. The old lady had gone to bed; Isabella Wardle 
devoted herself exclusively to Mr. Trundle; the spinster aunt’s 
attentions were reserved for Mr. Tupman ; and "Emily’s thoughts 
t appeared , to ; be engrossed by some distant object —possibly they 
were with the absent Snodgrass. 

Eleven —twelve —one o’clock had struck , and the gentlemen 
had not arrived. Consternation sat on every face. Could they 
have been waylaid and robbed? Should they send men and 
lanterns in every direction by which they could be supposed 
likely to have travelled home? or should they— — Hark! there 
they were. What could have made them so late? A strange 
voice, too! To whom could it belong? They rushed into the 
kitchen whither the truants had repaired , and at once obtained 
rather more than a glimmering of the real state of the case. 

Mr. Pickwick, with his liands in his pockets and his hat 
cocked completely over his left eye, was leaning against the 
dresser, shaking his head from side to side, and producing a 
constant succession of the blandest and, most benevolent smiles 


Digitized by 


Google 





OF THE PICKWiCK CLUB. 89 

without being moved thereunto by .any discernible cause or 
pretence whatsoever; old Mr. Wardle, with a highly-inflamed 
countenance,- was grasping the hand ©f a strange gentleman 
muttering protestations -of . etearnal friendship ; Mr. Winkle , sup- 
porting himself by ^theoeight*dayt .clock; was ' feebly invoking 
destruction upon the head of any member of the -family, who 
should suggest the propriety of his retwingi.for the night ;<and 
Mr. Snodgrass had. sunk ratoiaobawywitto -an- expression; «£ the 
most abject and 1 hopeless i misery, that the human mind can 
imagine , portrayed in everflineament of his expressivefaoe. 

“ Is anything the matter?” inquired the three ladies. 

“ No tilin’ the matter,” replied Mar: Pickwick. “ We+- we’re 
— all right. — I say, Wardlfe ,iwehre ah right , ain't woW u *- 
“ I should think so,” replied the joHy host.-^^dtfyldedfs, 
here’s my friendtMr; Jingle — Mr. Pickwick’s friend , £ ®llradi*gie, 
come’pon— little visit.” • 

“ Is anything the matter with Mr. Snodgrass, sir?” inquired 
Emily, with great -anxiety. 

Nothing the matter, ma’am ,” replied the stranger. “Cricket 
dinner — glorious party— capital songs — old port— claret — 
good — very good — wine, ma’am — wine:” - ■ 

“It wasn’t the wine ,” murmured Mr. Snodgrass, in a broken 
voice. “ It was the salmon.” (Somehow or other, it never is the 
wine, in these cases.) 

“Hadn’t they better go to bed, ma'am?’’- inquired Emma. 
“ Two of the boys will Carry the gentlemen up stairs:” 

“ I won’t go to bed,” said Mr. Winkle , firmly* - 
“ No.living.boy shall carry. me/’ said Mr. Pickwick ,stoutly ; 
— > and he went on smiling as before, 'i>; •*' w-.- • 
Hurrah ! gasped Mr. Winkle faintly. 

^•Hurrah!” echoed Mr. Pickwick , taking off his- hat mid 
dashing 1 it-on the floor, and insanely casting his spectacles into 
the middle of the kitchen. — At this humorous 1 feat he laughed 
outright. •■■■&, -■ ■■ •' '0r ,k ‘ : ' 

“ Let’s — have — ? nother— bottle, ’’cried Mr.. Winkle, com- 
mencing in a very loud key; and endingtima Very faint one. His 
bead dropped upon his breast; and, muttering his invincible 
determination not to go to his bed , and a sangninary regret that 
he had not “ done for old Tupman ” in- the morning, he fell fast 
asleep ; in which condition he was borne to his apartment by two 
young giants under the personal, superintendence of the fat boy, 
to whose protecting care Mr. Snodgrass shortly- afterwards con- 
Gded his own person. Mr. Pickwick-accepted the proffered arm 
of Mr. Tupman and quietly disappeared , smiHdg more than 
ever ; and Mr. Wardle, after -taking as affectionate a leave of the 
whole family as if he were ordered for immediate execution , 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



90 POSTHUMOUS. PAPERS 

consigned to Mr. Trundle the honour of conveying him up stairs, 
and retired, with a very futile attempt to look impressively 
solemn and dignified. - 

“ What a shocking scene! ” said the. spinster aunt, 

“ Dis-gusting ! ” ejaculated both the young ladies. 

“ Dreadful — dreadful ! ” said Jingle , looking very grave ; he 
was about a bottle and a half ahead of any of his companions. 

“ Horrid spectacle — very.” 

“ What a nice man ! ” whispered the spinster aunt to Mr. Tup- 
man. . 

“ Good-looking , too! ” whispered Emily Wardle. 

“Oh, decidedly,” observed the spinster aunt. 

Mr. Tupman thought of the Widow at Rochester : and his 
mind was troubled. The succeeding half-hour’s conversation 
was not of a nature to calm his perturbed spirit. The new visiter ® 
was very talkative , and the number of his anecdotes was only 
to be exceeded by the extent of his politeness. Mr. Tupman 
felt, that as Jingle’s popularity increased, he (Tupman) retired 
further into the shade. His laughter was forced — his merriment 
feigned ; and when at last he laid his aching temples between 
the sheets, he thought, with horrid delight on the satisfaction it 
would afford him , to have Jingle’s head at that moment between 
the feather bed and the mattrass. 

The indefatigable stranger rose betimes next morning , and , 
although his companions remained in bed overpowered with the 
dissipation of the previous night, exerted himself most suc- 
cessfully to promote the hilarity of the breakfast-table. So suc- 
cessful were tus efforts , that even the deaf old lady insisted on 
having one or two of his best jokes retailed through the trumpet; 
and even she condescended to observe to the spinster aunt , that 
“ he” (meaning Jingle) “ was an impudent young fellow” — a 
sentiment in which all her relations then and there present 
thoroughly coincided. 

It was the old lady’s habit on the fine summer mornings to 
repair to the arbour in which Mr. Tupman had already signalised 
himself, in form and manner following : — first , the fat boy 
fetched from a peg behind the old lady’s bed-room door, a close 
black satin bonnet , a warm cotton shawl , and a thick stick with 
a capacious handle; and the old lady having put on the bonnet 
and shawl at her leisure, would lean one hand on the stick and 
the other on the fat boy’s shoulder, and walk leisurely to the 
arbour, where the fat boy would leave her to enjoy the fresh air 
for the space of half an hour ; at the expiration of which time he 
would return and reconduct her back to the house. 

The old lady was very precise and very particular ; and as t 
ceremony had been observed for three successive summ 
•* 



Digitized by 


Google 



OF THB PICKWICK CLUB. 91 

without the slightest deviation .from the. accustomed form, she 
was not a little surprised on this particular morning, to see the 
fat boy, instead of leaving the arbour, walk a few paces out of 
it, look carefully round him in every direction, and return 
towards her with great stealth and an air of the piost profound 
mystery. 

The old lady was timorous — most old ladies are — and her first 
impression was that the bloated lad was about to do her some 
grievous bodily harm with the view of possessing himself of her 
loose coin. She would have cried for assistance , but age and 
infirmity had long ago deprived her of the power of screaming ; 
she, therefore, watched his motions with feelings of intense 
terror, which were in no degree diminished by his coming close 
up to her, and shouting in her ear in an agitated, and as it 
seemed to her, a threatening tone, — 

“ Missus ! ” 

Now it so happened that Mr. Jingle was walking in the garden 
close to the arbour at this moment. He too heard the shout of 
“ Missus ,” and stopped to hear more. There were three reasons 
for his doing so. In the first place, he was idle and curious; 
secondly, he was by no means scrupulous -, thirdly, and lastly, 
he was concealed from view by some flowering shrubs. So there 
he stood , and there he listened. 

‘ ‘ Missus ,” shouted the fat boy. 

“ Well, Joe,” said the trembling old lady. “ I’m sure I have 
been a good mistress to you, Joe. You have invariably been 
treated very kindly. You have never had too much to do ; and 
you have always had enough to eat.” 

This last was an appeal to the fat boy’s most sensitive feelings. 
He seemed touched as he replied, emphatically, — 

“ I knows I has.” 

“ Then what can you want to do now?” said the old lady, 
gaining courage. 

“ I wants to make your flesh creep ,” replied the boy. 

This sounded like a very blood-thirsty mode of showing one’s 
gratitude; and as the old lady did not precisely understand the 
process by which such a result was to be attained , all her former 
horrors returned. 

“ What do you think I see in this very arbour last night? ” 
inquired the boy. 

“Bless us! What?” exclaimed the old lady, alarmed at the 
solemn manner of the corpulent youth. 

“ The strange gentleman — him as had his arm hurt — a kissin’ 
and huggin’ ” 

“ Who , Joe — who ? None of the servants , 1 hope.” 

“ Worser than that ,” roared the fat boy, in the old lady’s ear. 

• r 

**• 

L X 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



92 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ Not one of niy.grand-da’aters?” 

“ Worser than that ” n . 

“ Worse than that, Joe ! ” said the , old lady, who had thought 
this the extreme limit of human atrocity., “Who was it, Joe? 
I insist upon knowing.” -■ 

The fat boy looked cautiously round, and having concluded 
his survey, shouted in the old lady’s ear, — 

“ Miss Rachael.” 

“ What ! ” said the old lady, in a shrill tone. “ Speak louder.” 

“ Miss Rachael ,” roared the fat boy. 

“Myda’ater!” 

The train of nods which the fat boy gave by way of assent , 
communicated a blanc-mange like motion to his fat cheeks. 

“ And she suffered him ! ” exclaimed the old lady. 

A grin stole over the fat boy’s features as he said , — - 

“ I see her a kissin’ of him agin.” 

If Mr. Jingle, from his place of concealment, could have 
beheld the expression which the old lady’s face assumed at this 
communication , the probability is that a sudden burst of laughter 
would have betrayed his close vicinity to the summer-house. 
He listened attentively. Fragments of angry sentences such as , 
“ Without my permission ! ” — “ At her time of life”— “ Miser- 
able old ’ooman like me ” — “ Might have waited till I was dead ,” 
and so forth , reached his ears ; and then he heard the heels of 
the fat boy’s boots crunching the gravel , as he retired and left 
the old lady alone. 

. It was a remarkable coincidence perhaps , but it was never- 
theless a fact, that Mr. Jingle within five minutes after his arrival 
at Manor Farm on the preceding night , had inwardly resolved 
to lay siege to the heart of the spinster aunt , without delay. He 
had observation enough to see , that his off-hand manner was by 
no means disagreeable to the fair object of his attack ; and he had 
more than a strong suspicion that she possessed that most 
desirable of all requisites , a small independence. The imperative 
necessity of ousting his rival by some means or other, flashed 
quickly upon him , and he immediately resolved to adopt certain 
proceedings tending to that end and object , without a moment’s 
delay. Fielding tells us that man is Are , and woman tow , and 
the Prince of Darkness sets a light to ’em. Mr. Jingle knew that 
young men , to spinster aunts , are as lighted gas to gunpowder, 
and he detain jnqd, to essay the effect of an explosion without loss 
Of time. . , ' <- (i it.’ ..i r 

Full of reflections upon this important decision y he crept from 
his placniQf .pQft^almnnt , and ^ under cover of the shrubs before 
mentioned, , appnqftc^eshtha kwWflegiFortune seemed determined 
to favoqr Jus, design . .Ahl 'dilijooian and the rest of the gentlemen. 


Mi 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


j 



OF THE PICKWiOK. Cf,UB. 93 

left the garden by the side gate jtist'as'he obtiiiie'da view of it; 
and the young ladies he knew, had walked 1 Cut alotle , soon after 
breakfast. The coast 'tfas'detfr. 1 ' ’ 

The breakfast-parlourdoor was partially bpen. He peeped in. 
The spinster aunt was knitting. He coughed; 1 she looked up 
and smiled. Hesitation formed no part of Mr. Alfred Jingle’s 
character. He laid his finger unltfe 'lips mysteriously, walked in , 
and closed the door. ' , . , 

“ Miss Wardle,”saHl MriJirtgler; vtith aflfecte'd earnestness, 
“ forgive intrusion — shortacquaint&rice — no dhiefor teranony 
— all discovered.” . i /. 

“■ Sir! ” r said the ! spinster auht, rather astonished by the'Wn- 
expected apparitibn and someWhat' doubtful of Mr. ' 
sanity. ’ ' 1 " 

“ Hush!” said Mr. Jingle, in a stage whisper; — “ large 
boy — dumpling face — round eyes — rascal ! ” Here he shook 
his head , expressively, and the spinster aunt trembled with 
agitation. • 

“ I presume you allude to Joseph , sir? ” said the lady, making 
an effort to appear composed. 

“ Yfes, ma’am — damn that Joe! — treacherous dog, Joe — 
told the old lady — old lady furious— wild — raving — arbour 
— Tupman — kissing and hugging — all that sort of thing — 
eh, ma’am — eh?” 

“ Mr. Jingle,” said the spinster aunt, “ if you come here, sir, 
to insult me- ” 

“Not at all— by no means,” replied the Unabashed Mr. Jingle;* 
— “ overheard the tale— 'came to; warn you of your danger - 
tender my services— prevent the hubbub. Nevermind — think 
it an insult— leave the room ’’“-and he turned, as if to carry 
the threat into execution. 

“ What ite/H de?” said the poor spinster, bursting into 
tears. “ >My brother will be furious ! ” 

“ Of course he will,” said Mr. Jingle pausing— “ ontrageous.” 

“ Oh, Mr; Jingle; what can I say? ” exclaimed-the spinster 
aunt, in another flood of despair. ’ 

“ Say he dreamt it ,” replied Mr. Jingle , coolly. 

A ray of comfort darted across the mind of the spinster aunt 
at this suggestion. Mr* Jingle perceived it, and followed up bis 
advantage. 

“Pooh, pooh! —nothing more easy — blackguard boy — 
lovely woman — fat boy horsewhipped — you believed — end of 
the matter — all comfortable;” 

Whether the probability of escaping from the consequences of 
this ill-timed discovery was delightful to the spinster’s feelings, 
or whether the hearing herself described as a “ lovely woman ” 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



94 POSTHCMOCS PAPERS 

softened the asperity of her grief, we know not. She blushed 
slightly, and cast a grateful look on Mr. Jingle. 

That insihuating gentleman sighed deeply, fixed his eyes on 
the spinster aunt’s face for a couple of minutes, started melo- 
dramatically, and suddenly withdrew them. 

“ You seem unhappy, Mr. Jingle,” said the lady, in a plaintive 
voice. “ May I show my gratitude for your kind interference , 
by inquiring into the cause, with a view, if possible, to its 
removal?” 

“ Ha! ” exclaimed Mr. Jingle, with another start — “ removal! 
remove my unhappiness, and your love bestowed upon a man 
who is insensible to the blessing — who even now contemplates 
a design upon the affections of the niece of the creature who — 
but no ; he is my friend 5 1 will not expose his vices. Miss Wardle 
— farewell! ” At the conclusion of this address, the most con- 
secutive he was ever known to utter, Mr. Jingle applied to his 
eyes the remnant of a handkerchief before noticed , and turned 
towards the door. 

“ Stay, Mr. Jingle ! ” said the spinster aunt emphatically. 
“ You have made an allusion to Mr. Tupman — explain it.” 

“ Never! ” exclaimed Jingle, with a professional (i. e. theatri- 
cal) air. “ Never!” and, by way of showing that lie had no 
desire to be questioned further, he drew a chair close to that of 
the spinster aunt and sat down. 

“ Mr. Jingle,” said the aunt, “ I entreat — 1 implore you, 
if there is any dreadful mystery connected with Mr. Tupman, 
reveal it.” 

“ Can I,” said Mr. Jingle , fixing his eyes on the aunt’s face 
— “Can I see — lovely creature — sacrificed at the shrine — 
heartless avarice ! ” He appeared to be struggling with various 
conflicting emotions for a few seconds , and then said in a low 
deep voice — “ Tupman only wants your money.” 

“ The wretch! ” exclaimed the spinster, with energetie in- 
dignation. (Mr. Jingle’s doubts were resolved. She had money. ) 

“ More than that ,” said Jingle — “ loves another.” 

“ Another ! ” ejaculated the spinster. “ Who? ” 

“ Short girl — black eyes — niece Emily.” 

There was a pause. 

Now if there were one individual in the whole world , of whom 
the spinster aunt entertained a mortal and deeply-rooted jealousy, 
it was this identical niece. The colour rushed over her face 
and neck , and she tossed her head in silence with an air of 
ineffable contempt. At last, biting her thin lips, and bridling 
up, she said, — 

“ It can’t he. I won’t believe it.” 

“ Watch ’em ,” said Jingle. 


Digitized by 


Google 




95 


OP THE PICKWICK CLUB. 

“ I will ” said the aunt. 

“ Watch his looks.” 

“I will.” 

“ His whispers.” 

“I will.” 

“ He ’ll sit next her at table.” 

“Let him.” 

“He ’ll flatter her.” 

“Let him.” 

“He’ll pay her every possible attention.” 

“Let him.” 

“ And he ’ll cut you.” 

“Cut me!” screamed the spinster aunt, “fie cut me; — will 
he 1 ” and she trembled with rage and disappointment. 

“ You will convince yourself?” said Jingle. 

“I will.” 

“ You ’ll show your spirit? 

“I will.” 

“ You ’ll not have him afterwards? ” 

“Never.” t 

“ You ’ll take somebody else? ” 

“ Yes ” 

“ You shall.” 

Mr. Jingle fell on his knees , remained thereupon for five mi- 
nutes thereafter : and rose the accepted lover of the spinster 
aunt — conditionally upon Tupman’s perjury being made clear 
and manifest. 

The burden of proof lay with Mr. Alfred Jingle; and he pro- 
duced his evidence that very day at dinner. The spinster aunt 
could hardly believe her eyes. Mr. Tracy Tupman was established 
at Emily’s side, ogling, whispering, and smiling , Yh opposition 
to Mr. Snodgrass. Not a word , not a look , not a glance , did 
he bestow upon his heart’s pride of the evening before. 

“ Damn that boy ! ” thought old Mr. Wardle to himself. He 
had heard the story from his mother. “Damn that boy ! He 
must have been asleep. It’s all imagination.” 

“Traitor ! ” thought the spinster aunt to herself. “ Dear Mr. 
Jingle was not deceiving me. Oh ! how I hate the wretch ! ” 

The following conversation may serve to explain to our read- 
ers , this apparently unaccountable alteration of deportment , on 
the part of Mr. Tracy Tupman. . 

The time was evening; the scene the garden. There were* 
two figures walking in a side path ; one was rather short and 
stout ; the other rather tall and slim. They were Mr. Tupman 
and Mr. Jingle. The stout figure commenced the dialogue. 

“ How did I do it?” he inquired. ' 




Digitized by 


Google 



96 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ Splendid — capital — couldn’t act better myself — you must 
repeat the part to-morrow — every evening , till further notice.” 

“ Does Rachael still wish it?” 

“ Of course — she don’t like it — but must be done — avert sus- 
picion — afraid of her brother — says there’s no help for it — only 
few days more— when old folks blinded— crown your happiness.” 

Any message ?” 

“ Love — best love — kindest regards — unalterable affection. 
Can I say anything for you ?” 

“ My dear fellow” replied the unsuspicious Mr. Tupman, fer- 
vently grasping his “ friend’s” hand — “carry my best love — 
say how hard I find it to dissemble — say anything that’s kind : 
but add how sensible I am of the necessity of the suggestion she 
made to me , through you , this morning. Say I applaud her 
wisdom and admire her discretion.” 

“I will. Anything more? ” 

“ Nothing; only add how ardently I long for the time when I 
may call her mine , and all dissimulation may be unnecessary.” 

“ Certainly, certainly. Anything more?” 

“ Oh , my friend ! ” said poor Mr. Tupman , again grasping 
the hand of his companion, “receive my warmest thanks for 
your disinterested kindness ; and forgive me if I have ever, even 
in thought , done you the injustice of supposing that you could 
stand in my way. My dear friend , can I ever repay you ? ” 

“ Don’t talk of it,” replied Mr. Jingle. He stopped short, as if 
suddenly recollecting something , and said , — “ By-the-by, you 
can’t spare ten pounds, can you? — very particular purpose — 
pay you in three days.” 

“ I dare say I can ,” replied Mr. Tupman , in the fulness of 
his heart. “ Three days , you say ?” 

“ Only three days — all over then— no more difficulties.” 

Mr. Tupman counted the money into his companion’s hand , 
and he dropped it piece by piece into his pocket, as they walked 
towards the house. 

“ Be careful ,” said Mr. Jingle — “ not a look.” 

“ Not a wink,” said Mr. Tupman. 

“ Not a syllable.” 

“Not a whisper.” 

“ All your attentions to the niece — rather rude , than other- 
wise , to the aunt — only way of deceiving the old ones.” 

“ I’ll take care ,” said Mr. Tupman, aloud. 

“ And i’ll take care ,” said Mr. Jingle internally; and they 
entered the house. 

The scene of that afternoon was repeated that evening , and 
on the three afternoons and evenings next ensuing. On the 
fourth , the host was in high spirits , for he had satisfied himself 


Digitized by 


Google 





OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 97 

that there was.no ground for the charge against Mr. Tupman. 
So was Mr. Tupman , for Mr. Jingle had told him that his affair 
would soon be brought to a crisis. So was Mr. Pickwick , for he 
was seldom otherwise. So was not Mr. Snodgrass , for he had 
grown jealous of Mr. Tupman. So was the old lady, for she 
had been winning at whist. So were Mr. Jingle and Miss Wardle, 
for reasons of sufficient importance in this eventfill history, to 
be narrated in another chapter. 


CHAPTER X. 

A DISCOVERY AND A CHASE. 


The supper was ready laid , the chairs were drawn round the 
table, bottles, jugs and glasses were arranged upon the side- 
board, and everything betokened the approach of the most 
convivial period in the whole four and twenty hours. 

“ Where’s Rachael?” said Mr. Wardle. 

“ Aye , and Jingle? ” added Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Dear me,” said the host , “ I wonder I haven’t missed him 
before. Why, I don’t think I’ve heard his voice for two hours at 
least. Emily, my dear, ring the bell.” 

The bell was rung , and the fat boy appeared. 

“ Where’s Miss Rachael? ” He couldn’t say. 

“ Where’s Mr. Jingle , then ? ” He didn’t know. 

Everybody looked surprised. It was late — past eleven 
o’clock. Mr. Tupman laughed in his sleeve. They were loitering 
somewhere, talking about him. Ha, ha ! capital notion that- — j 
funny. ( 

“ Never mind,” said Wardle, after a short pause, “ they’ll: 
turn up presently,! dare say. I never wait supper for anybody. ”• 

“ Excellent rule, that,” said Mr. Pickwick, “ admirable.” f 

“ Pray, sit down ,” said the host. 

“ Certainly,” said Mr. Pickwick : and down they sat. V 

There was a gigantic round of cold beef on the table, and 
Mr. Pickwick was supplied with a plentiful portion of it. He 
had raised bis fork to his lips, and was on the very point of 
opening his mouth for the reception of a piece of beef, when 
the hum of many voices suddenly arose in the kitchen. He 
paused, and laid down his fork. ' Mr. Watdle paused too, and 
insensibly released his hold of the carving-knife, which remained 
inserted in the beef. He looked at.Mr. Pickwick. Mr. Pickwick 
looked at him. . >> 

Heavy footsteps were heard in the passage ; the parlour door 
I. 7 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



98 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

was suddenly burst open, and the man who had cleaned 
Mr. Pickwick’s boots on his first arrival, rushed into the room, 
followed by the fat boy, and all the domestics. 

“ What the devil’s the meaning of this?” exclaimed the host. 

“ The kitchen chimney ain’t a-fire, is it, Emma?” inquired 
the old lady. 

“ Lor, grandma ! No,” screamed both the young ladies. 

“ What’s the matter?” roared the master of the bouse. 

The man gasped for breath , and faintly ejaculated — 

“ They ha’ gone, Mas’r ! — gone right clean off, sir! ” (At 
this juncture, Mr. Tupman was observed to lay down his knife 
and fork, and to turn very pale.) 

“ Who’s gone? ” said Mr. Wardle , fiercely. 

“ Mus’r Jingle and Miss Rachael , in a po’-chay, from Blue 
Lion , Muggleton. I was there ; but I couldn’t stop ’em ; so I run 
off to tell’ee.” 

“ I paid his expenses ! ” said Mr. Tupman , jumping up fran- 
tically. “He’s got ten pounds of mine! — stop him ! •*- he’s 
swindled me ! — 1 won’t bear it ! — I’ll have justice , Pickwick ! 
— I won’t stand it! ” and with sundry incoherent exclamations 
of the like nature , the unhappy gentleman spun round and round 
the apartment , in a transport of frenzy. 

“ Lord preserve us!” ejaculated Mr. Pickwick, eyeing the 
extraordinary gestures of bis friend with terrified surprise. 

1 4 He’s gone mad ! What shall we do ? ” 

“ Do ! ” said the stout old host , who regarded only the last 
words of the sentence. “ Put the horse in the gig ! I’ll get a 
chaise at the Lion, and follow ’em instantly. “ Where” — he 
exclaimed, as the man ran out to execute the commission — - 
“ Where’s that villain , Joe? ” 

“ Here I am 5 but I han’t a willin replied a voice. It was the 
fat boy’s. 

“ Let me get at him , Pickwick ! ” cried Wardle , as he rushed 
at the ill-starred youth. “ He was bribed by that scoundrel , 
Jingle, to put me on a wrong seent, by tettmg a cock-and- 
a-bull story of my sister and/ your friend Tupman!” (Here 
Mr. Tupman sunk into a chair.) 44 Let me get at him ! ” 

“ Don’t let him!” screamed all fee women, above whose 
exclamations, the blubbering of the fat boy was distinctly au- 
dible. 

44 1 won’t be held ! ” cried the old man. 44 Mr. Winkle , take 
your hands off! Mr. Pickwick , let me go , sir! ” 

It was a beautiful sight , in that moment of turmoil and conci- 
sion, to behold the placid and philosophical expression of 
Mr. Pickwick’s face, albeit somewhat flushed with exertion , as 
he stood with his arras firmly clasped round the extensive waist 


Digitized by 


Google 





OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 99 

of their corpulent host , thus restraining the impetuosity of his 
passion , while the fat boy was scratched , and pulled , and push- 
ed from the room by all the females congregated therein. He 
had no sooner released his bold, than the man entered to an- 
nounce that the gig was ready. 

“ Don’t let him go alone ! ” screamed the females. “ He’ll kill 
somebody ! ” 

“ I’ll go with him ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“You’re a good fellow, Pickwick,” said the host, grasping 
his hand. “ Emma , give Mr. Pickwick a shawl to tie round his 
neck — make ha&te. Look after your grandmother, girls ; she’s 
fainted away. Now then , are you ready? ” 

Mr, Pickwick’s mouth and chin having been hastily en- 
veloped in a large shawl , his hat having been put on his head , 
and his great coat thrown over his arm , he replied in the affir- 
mative. 

They jumped into the gig. “ Give her her head , Tom ,” cried 
the host ; and away they went , down the narrow lanes : jolting 
in and out of the cart-ruts , and bumping up against the hedges 
on either side, as if they would go to pieces every moment. 

“ How much are they a -head? ” shouted WarcHe, as they 
drove up to the door of the Blue Lion, round whicha little crowd 
had collected, late as it was. 

“ Not above three-quarters of an hour,” was everybody’s 
reply. 

“ Chaise and four directly ! — out with ’em! Put up the gig 
afterwards. ” 

“ Now, boys! ” cried the landlord — “ chaise and four out — 
make haste — look alive there ! ” 

Away ran the hostlers, and the boys. The lanterns glimmered, 
as the men ran to and fro; the horses’ hoofs clattered on the 
uneven paving of the yard; the chaise rumbled as it was drawn 
out of the coach-house; and all was noise and bustle. 

“Now then! — is that chaise coming out to-night?” cried 
War die. 

“ Coming down the yard now, sir,” replied the hostler. 

Out came the chaise — m went the horses — on sprung the 
boys — in got the travellers. 

“ Mind — the seven-mile stage in less than half an hour ! ” 
shouted Wardle. 

“ Off with you ! ” 

The boys applied whip and spin*, the waiters shouted , the 
hostlers cheered , and away they went , fast and furiously. 

“Pretty situation,” thought Mr. Pickwick, wheh he had 
had a moment’s time for reflection. “Pretty situation for 
the General Chairman of the Pickwick Club. Damp chaise — 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



100 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

strange horses — fifteen miles an hour — and twelve o’clock at 
night!” 

For the first three or four miles, not a word was spoken by 
either of the gentlemen, each being too much immersed in his 
own reflections, to address any observations to his companion. 
When they had gone over that much ground, however, and the 
horses getting thoroughly warmed began to do their work in 
really good style, Mr. Pickwick became too much exhilarated 
with the rapidity of the motion , to remain any longer perfectly 
mute. 

“ We’re sure to catch them , I think ,” said he. 

“ Hope so,” replied his companion. 

“ Fine night,” said Mr. Pickwick, looking up atthe moon, 
which was shining brightly. 

“ So much the worse,” returned Wardle ; “ for they’ll have 
had all the advantage of the moonlight to get the start of us , 
and we shall lose it. It will have gone down in another hour.” 

“It will be rather unpleasant going at this rate in the dark, 
won’t it? ” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“ I dare say it will,” replied his friend drily. 

Mr. Pickwick’s temporary excitement began to sober down a 
jittle , as he reflected upon the inconveniences and dangers of 
the expedition in which he had so thoughtlessly embarked. He 
was roused by a loud shouting of the post-boy on the leader. 

“ Yo — yo — yo — yo — yoe ,’’ went the first boy. 

“ Yo — yo — yo — yoe ! ” went the second. 

“ Yo — yo — yo — yoe ! ” chimed in old Wardle himself, most 
lustily, with his head and half his body out of the coach 
window. 

“ Yo — yo — yo — yoe!” shouted Mr. Pickwick, taking' up 
the burden of the cry, though he had not the slightest notion of 
its meaning or object. And amidst the yo — yoing of the whole 
four, the chaise stopped. 

“ What’s the matter?” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“ There’s a gate here ,” replied old Wardle , “ we shall hear 
something of the fugitives. ” 

After a lapse of five minutes, consumed in incessant knocking 
and shouting, an old man in his shirt and trousers emerged 
from the turnpike-house, and opened the gate. 

“ How long is it since a post-chaise went through here?” 
inquired Mr. Wardle. 

“ How long ? ” 

“ Ah ! ” 

“ Why, I don’t rightly know. It wom’t a long time ago, nor 
- it worn’t a short time ago — just between the two, perhaps.” 

“ Has any chaise been by at all ? ” 


Digitized by 


Google 





101 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 

“ Oh yes, there’s been a chay by. ” 

“ How long ago, my friend?” interposed Mr. Pickwick; “ an 
hour?” 

“ Ah , I dare say it might be ,” replied the man. 

“Or two hours ? ” inquired the post-boy on the wheeler. 

“ Well, I shouldn’t wonder if it was,” returned the old man 
doubtfhlly. 

“ Drive on , boys , ” cried the testy old gentleman : “ don’t 
waste any more time with that old idiot ! ” 

“ Idiot! ” exclaimed the old man with a grin, as he stood in 
the middle of the road with the gate half closed , watching the 
chaise which rapidly diminished krthe increasing distance. “ No 
— not much o’ that either; you’ve lost ten minutes here , and 
gone away as wise as you came arter all. If every man on the 
line as has a guinea give him earns it half as well, you won’t 
catch t’other ebay this side Mich’lmas, old short and fat.” And 
with another prolonged grin, the old man closed the gate, re- 
entered his house , and bolted the door after him. 

Meanwhile the chaise proceeded , without any slackening of 
pace, towards the conclusion of the stage. The moon, as Wardle 
had foretold , was rapidly on the wane ; large tiers of dark heavy 
clouds which had been gradually overspreading the sky for some 
time past, now formed one black mass over head; and large 
drops of rain which pattered every now and then against the 
windows of the chaise, seemed to warn the travellers of the 
rapid approach of a stormy night. The wind, too, which was 
directly against them , swept in furious gusts down the narrow 
road , and howled dismally through the trees which skirted the 
pathway. Mr. Pickwick drew his coat closer about him , coiled 
himself more snugly up into the corner of the chaise , and fell 
into a sound sleep, from which he was only awakened by the 
stopping of the vehicle, the sound of the hostler's bell, and a 
loud cry of “ Horses on directly ! ” 

But here another delay occurred. The boys were sleeping with 
such mysterious soundness, that it took five minutes a piece to 
wake them. The hostler had somehow or other mislaid the key 
of the stable , and even when that was found , two sleepy helpers 
put the wrong harness on the wrong horses , and the whole pro- 
cess, of harnessing had to be gone through afresh. Had Mr. Pick- 
wick been alone, these multiplied obstacles would have completely 
put an end to the pursuit at once , but old Wardle was not to be 
so easily daunted ; and he laid about him with such hearty good- 
will, cuffing this man , and pushing that; strapping a buckle here, 
and taking in a link there , that the chaise was ready in a much 
shorter time than could reasonably have been expected , under 
so many difficulties. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



102 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

They resumed their journey ; and certainly the prospect before 
them was by no means encouraging. The stage was fifteen miles 
long , the night was dark , the wind high , and the rain pouring 
in torrents. It was impossible to make any great way against 
such obstacles united : it was hard upon one o’clock already ; and 
nearly two hours were consumed in getting to the end of the 
stage. Here , however, an object presented itself, which re- 
kindled their hopes, and re-animated their drooping spirits. 

“ When did this chaise come in ?” cried old Wardle, leaping 
out of his own vehicle, and pointing to one covered with wet 
mud , which was standing in the yard. 

“ Not a quarter of an hour ago , sir 5” replied the hostler, to 
whom the question was addressed. 

“ Lady and gentleman ? ” inquired Wardle, almost breathless 
with impatience. 

“ Yes, sir.” 

“ Tall gentleman — dress— long legs— thin body?” 

“ Yes , sir.” 

“ Elderly lady — thin face— rather skinny — eh?” 

“ Yes, sir.” 

“ By Heavens , it's them , Pickwick ,” exclaimed the old 
gentleman. 

“ Would have been here before said the hostler, “ but they 
broke a trace.” 

“ ’Tis them,” said Wardle. “ It is, by Jove! Chaise and four 
instantly. We shall catch them yet , before they reach the next 
stage. A guinea a-piece , boys — be alive there — bustle about — 
there’s good fellows.” 

And with such admonitions as these ,/the old gentleman ran 
up and down the yard , and bustled to and fro , in a state of ex- 
citement which communicated itself to Mr. Pickwick also 5 and 
under the influence of which , that gentleman got himself into 
complicated entanglements with harness, and mixed up with 
horses and wheels of chaises , in the most surprising manner, 
firmly believing that, by so doing , he wa^m'aterially forwarding 
the preparations for their resuming their journey. 

“ Jump in— jump in!” cried old Wardle, climbing into the 
chaise , pulling up the steps , and slamming the door after him. 
“ Come along , make haste.” And before Mr. Pickwick knew 
precisely what he was about , he felt himself forced in at the other 
door, by one pull from the old gentleman , and one push from 
the hostler •, and off they were again. 

“ Ah ! we are moving now,” said the old gentleman exulting- 
ly. They were indeed , as was sufficiently testified to Mr. Pick- 
wick , by his constant collisions either with the hard wood-work 
Of the chaise , or the body of his companion. 


Digitized by 


Google 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 103 

“ Hold up ! ” said the stout old Mr. Wardle , as Mr. Pickwick 
dived head foremost into his capacious waistcoat. 

“ I never did feel such a jolting in my life ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Never mind,” replied his companion , “ it’ll soon be over. 
Steady, steady.” 

Mr. Pickwick planted himself into his own corner, as firmly as 
he could ; and on whirled the chaise faster than ever. 

They had travelled in this way about three miles , when Mr. 
Wardle , who had been looking out of the window for two or 
three minutes, suddenly drew in his face, Covered with splashes, 
and exclaimed in breathless eagerness — 

“ Here they are! ” 

Mr. Pickwick thrust his head out of his Window. Yes : there 
was a chaise and four, a short distance before them , dashing 
along at full gallop. 

“ Go on , go on ,” almost shrieked the old gentleman.' “ Two 
guineas a-piece , boys— don’t let ’em gaih on u8—keep it up — 
keep it up.” 

The horses in the first chaise started on at their utmost speed 5 
and those in Mr. Wardle’s galloped furiously behind them. 

“ I see his head ,” exclaimed the choleric old man ; “ Datnine, 
I see his head.” 

“ So do I ,” said Mr. Pickwick , that’s he.” 

Mr. Pickwick Was not mistaken. The countenance of Mr. 
Jingle, completely coated With the mud thrown up by the wheels, 
was plainly discernible at the window of his chaise ; and the mo- 
tion of his arm , which he was waving violently towards the 
postilions , denoted that he was encouraging them to increased 
exertion. 

The interest was intense. Fields, trees, and hedges, seemed 
to rush past them with the Velocity of a whirlwind , So rapid was 
the pace at which they tore along. They were cfotw by 'the side 
of the first chaise. Jingle’s voice could be piafrfly heard', even 
above the din of the wheels, Urging on the boys. Old Mr. Wardle 
foamed with rage ag^excitement. He roared out sCouHdrels and 
villains by the dozen , eleridtied his fist and shbok it Cxpressively 
at the object of his indignation 5 but Mr: Jingle only answered 
with a contemptuous smile, and replied' to Iris menaces by a 
shout of triumph , as his horses , an^Wefing the increased appli- 
cation of whip and spur,’brdke into a faster gallop , and left the 
pursuers behind. 

Mr. Pickwick had just drawn in his head, and Mr. Wardle , 
exhausted with shouting, had done the same, when a tremendous 
jolt threw them forward against the front of the vehicle. There 
was a sudden bump — a loud crash— away rolled a wheel, and 
over went the chaise. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



104 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

After a very few seconds of bewilderment and confusion , in 
which nothing but the plunging of horses, and breaking of glass, 
could be made out, Mr. Pickwick felt himself violently pulled 
out from among the ruins of the chaise, and as soon as he had 
gained bis feet , and extricated his head from the skirts of his . 
great coat which materially impeded the usefulness of his spec- 
tacles , the full disaster of the case met his view. 

Old Mr. Wardle without a hat, and his clothes tom in several 
places , stood by his side , and the fragments of the chaise lay 
scattered at their feet. The post-boys * who had succeeded in 
cutting the traces , were . standing , disfigured with mud and 
disordered by hard riding , by the horses’ heads. About a 
hundred yards in advance was the other chaise , which had 
pulled up on hearing the crash. The postilions , each with a 
broad grin convulsing his countenance , were viewing the ad- 
verse party from their saddles , and Mr. Jingle was contemplating 
the wreck from the coach-window, with evident satisfaction. 
The day was just breaking , and the whole scene was rendered 
perfectly visible by the grey light of the morning. 

“'Hallo ! ” shouted the shameless Jingle , “ anybody damaged? 
— elderly genUemen — no light weights — dangerous work- 
very.” 

“ You’re a rascal ! ” roared Wardle. 

“ Halhal” replied Jingle $ and then he added , with a know- 
ing wink, and a jerk of the thumb towards the interior of the 
chaise— “ I say — she’s very well— desires her compliments — 
begs .you won’t trouble yourself— love to Tuppy — won’t you 
get up behind?— drive on, boys.” 

“The postilions resumed their proper attitudes, and away 
rattled the chaise , Mr. Jingle fluttering in derision a white 
handkerchief from the coach window. 

Nothing in the whole. adventure, not even the upset, had 
disturbed the calm and equable current of Mr. Pickwick’s temper. 
The viUany, however, which could first borrow money of his 
faithful follower, and then abbreviate his name to “Tuppy,” 
was more than he could patiently bear. He drew his breath 
hard , and coloured up to the very tips of his spectacles , as he 
said , slowly and emphatically — 

“ If ever I meet that man again , I’ll—” 

“ Yes, yes ,” interrupted Wardle , “ that’s all very well : but 
while we stand talking here, they’ll get their licence , and be 
married in London.” 

Mr. Pickwick paused , bottled up his vengeance , and corked 
it down. « 

“ How far is it to (he next stage? ” inquired Mr. Wardle, of 
one of the boys. 


Digitized by 


Google 


105 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 

“ Six mile , a’nt it , Tom? ” 

“ Rayther better.” 

“ Rayther, better nor six mile , sir.” 

“ Can’t be helped,” said Wardle, “we must walk it, Pickwick.” 

“ No help for it ,” replied that truly great man. 

So sending forward one of the boys on horseback , to procure 
a fresh chaise and horses , and leaving the other behind to take 
care of the broken one , Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Wardle set 
manfully forward on the walk , first tying their shawls round 
their necks , and slouching down their hats to escape as much as 
possible from the deluge of rain , which, after a slight cessation, 
had again begun to pour heavily down. 


CHAPTER XI. 

CLEARING UP ALL DOUBTS ( IE ANY EXISTED ) OF THE DISINTERESTEDNESS OF '** 
MR. JINGLE'S CHARACTER. 


There -are in London several old inns, once the head quarters 
of celebrated coaches in the days when coaches performed their 
journeys in a graver and more solemn manner than they do in 
these times ; but which have now degenerated into little more 
than the abiding and booking places of country waggons. The 
reader would look in vain for any of these ancient hostelries , 
among the Golden Crosses and Bull and Mouths, which rear their 
stately fronts in the improved streets of London. If he would 
light upon any of these old places, he must direct his steps to 
the obscurer quarters of the town *, and there in some secluded 
nooks he will find several , still standing with a kind of gloomy 
sturdiness, amidst the modern innovations which surround them. 

In the Borough especially, there still remain some half dozen 
old inns, which have preserved their external features unchang- 
ed, and which have escaped alike the rage for public improve- 
ment , and the encroachments of private speculation. Great , 
rambling, queer, old places they are , with galleries, and pas- 
sages, and staircases , wide enough and antiquated enough, to 
furnish materials for a hundred ghost stories, supposing we 
should ever be reduced to the lamentable necessity of inventing 
any, and that the world should exist long enough to exhaust 
the innumerable veracious legends connected with old London 
Bridge , and its adjacent neighbourhood on the Surrey side. 

It was in the yard of one of these inns — of no less celebrated 
a one than the White Hart— that a man was busily employed in 
brushing the dirt off a pair of boots , early on the morning 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



106 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

succeeding the events narrated in the last chapter. He was habit- 
ed in a coarse-striped waistcoat , with black calico sleeves, and 
blue glass buttons ; drab breeches and leggings. A bright red 
handkerchief was wound in a very loose and unstudied style 
round his neck , and an old white hat was Carelessly thrown 
on one side of his head. There were two rows of boots before 
him , one cleaned and the other dirty, and at every addition he 
made to the- clean row, he paused from his work, and contem- 
plated its results with evident* satisfaction. 

The yard presented none of that bustle and activity which are 
the usual characteristics of a large coach inn. Three or four 
lumbering' waggons, each with a pile of goods beneath its ample 
canopy, about the height of the second floor window of an ordi- 
nary house, were stowed away beneath a lofty roof which extend- 
ed over one end of the yard ; and another, which was probably 
to commence its journey that morning , was drawn out into the 
own space. A double tier of bed-room galleries, with old clumsy 
^ptystrades, ran round two sides of the straggling area , and a 
double row of bells to correspond , sheltered from the weather 
by a little sloping roof, hung over the door leading to the bar 
and coffee-room. Two or three gigs and chaise-carts were 
wheeled up under different little sheds and pent-houses; and 
the occasional heavy tread of a cart-horse, or rattling of a Chain 
at the further end of the yard, announced to anybody who cared 
about the matter, that the stable lay in that direction. When we 
add that a few boys insmock frocks, were lying asleep on heavy 
packages , woolpacks , and other articles that were scattered 
about on heaps of straw, we have described as fully as need be, 
the general appearance of the yard of the White Hart Inn, High 
Street, Borough, on the particular morning in question. 

A loud ringing -of one of the bells, Was followed by the ap- 
pearance of a smart chambermaid in the upper sleeping 'gallery, 
who after tapping atone of the doors, and receiving a' request 
from within ,- called over Ihe balustrades. 

“ Sam ! ” 

“ Hallo,” replied the man with the white hat. 

“ Number twenty-two wants his boots.” 

“ Ask number twenty-two , vether he’ll have ’em now, or vait 
till he gets ’em ,” was the reply. 

“ Come, don’t be a fool , Sam,” said the girl , coaxingly ; “ the 
gentleman wants his boots directly,” 

“ Well , you are a nice young’ooman for a musical party, you 
are ,” said the boot-cleaner. “ Look at these here boots — eleven 
pair o’ boots*, and one shoe as b’longs to number six, with the 
wooden leg. The eleven boots is to be called at half-past eight 
and the shoe at nine. Who’s number twenty-two, that’s to put 


Digitized by 


Google 



4 OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. . 107 

all the others out? No, no ; reg’lar rotation , as Jack Ketch said , 
ven he tied the men up. Sorry to keep you a watin’, sir, but 
I’ll attend to you directly.” 

Saying which, the man in the white bat set to work upon a 
top-boot with increased assiduity. ■ 

There was another loud ring-, and the bustling old landlady of 
the White Hart made her appearance in the opposite gallery. 

“ Sam,” cried the landlady, ‘t where's that la2y> idle— why 
Sam — oh, there you are,; why dflbH you answer?” 

“Vouldn’t be gen-teel to answer, ’tiH you’d done talking,” 
replied Sam, gruffly. 

“ Here, clean them shoes for number seventeen directly, and 
take ’em to private sitting-room , number five, first floor.” 

The landlady flung a pair of lady’s shoes into the yard , and 
bustled away. 

“ Number 5,” said Sam, as he picked up the shoes, and taking 
a piece of chalk from his pocket , made a memorandum of thair 
destination on the soles — “Lady’s shoes and private sittW- 
room ! I suppose she didn’t come in the vaggin.” 

“ She came in early this morning ,” cried the girl , who was 
still leaning over the railing of the gallery, “ with agUbtleman 
ina hackney-coaeb, and it’s him as wants his boots, and you’d 
better do ’em , and {hat’s all about it.” 

“ Vy didn’t you say so before,” said Sam , with great indigna- 
tion , singling dut the boots in* question from the heap before 
him. “ For all I know’d he vas one o’ the regular threerpennies. 
Private room ! and a lady too ! tfthe’s anything of a gen’Im’n , 
he’s vurtb a shillin’ aSflay , let alone the. ammdsv” ■ f 

Stimulated by this inspiring reflection f, Mr. i Samuel brushed 
away with such hearty goodwill, thatinafew minutes the boots 
and shoes, with a polish which would have struck envy to the 
soul of the amiable Mr. Warren (for they used Day and Martin 
at the White Hart) had arrived at the door of number five. 

“Come in,” said a mim’svoioe^imreplyitoSam’s rap at 
the door. , 

Sam made his best bow, and stepped into the presence of a 
lady and gentleman seated a breakfast. Having officiously de- 
posited the gentleman’s boots right and left at bis feet, and the 
lady’s shoes right and left at hers , be- backed towards the door. 

“ Boots,” said the gentleman. <. - ■ 

“ Sir,” said Sam , closing the door, and. keeping his hand on 
the knob of the lock. 

“ Do you know — what's a-name — 'Doctors’ Commons?” 

“Yes, sir.” 

“ Where is it?” 

“ Paul’s Church-yard, sir; low archway on the carriage-side, 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



108 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

bookseller’s at one corner, hot-el on the other, and two porters 

in the middle as touts for licences.” 

“ Touts for licences ! ” said the gentleman. 

“Touts for licences,” replied Sam. “Two coves in vhite 
aprons — touches their hats ven you walk in — ‘Licence, sir, 
licence?’ Queer sort, them, and their mas’rs too, sir— Old 
Bailey Proctors — and no mistake.” 

“ What do they do ? ” inquired the gentleman. 

“ Do! You, sir! That an't the worst on it, neither. They 
puts things into old gen’lm’ns heads as they never dreamed of. 
My father, sir, vos a coachman. A vidower he vos , and fat 
enough for anything — uncommon fat, to be sure. His missus 
dies , and leaves him four hundred pound. Down he goes to the 
Commons, to see the lawyer and draw the blunt — wery smart 
— top boots on — nosegay in his button-hole — broad-brimmed 
tile — green shawl — quite the gen’lm’n. Goes through the 
archvay, thinking how he should inwest the money — up comes 
the touter, touches his hat — * Licence, sir, licence? * — ‘ What’s 
that?’ says my father. — * Licence , sir,’ says he. — ‘What 
licence? ’ says my father. — ‘ Marriage licence,’ says the touter. 

— ‘Dash my veskit,’ says my father, ‘luever thought o’ that.’ 
— ‘ I think you wants one , sir,’ says the touter. My father pulls 
up, and thinks a bit — ‘No,’ says he, ‘damme, I’m too old, 
b’sides I’m a many sizes too large,’ says he. — ‘Not a bit on it, 
sir,’ says the touter. — * Think-aot ? ’ says my r 'father. — * I’m 
sure not, says he ; * we married a gen’lm’n twice your size, last 
Monday.’ — Did you, thougWF said myjather. — ‘ To be sure, 
ve did,’ says the touter, ‘ you’re a babbjjfto him— this vay, sir 

— this vay ! ’ — and sure enough my4bfKer walks arter him, like 
a tame monkey behind a horgan, into a little back office, vere 
a feller sat among dirty papers and tin boxes, making believe he 
was busy. ‘ Pray take a seat , vile I makes out the affidavit, sir,’ 
says the lawyer. — ‘ Thankee, sir,’ says my father, and down he 
sat , and stared vith all his eyes , and his mouth vide open , at 
the names on the boxes. — ‘ What’s your name , sir,’ says the 
lawyer.’ — ‘ Tony Weller,’ says my father. — * Parish ? ’ says the 
lawyer. — ‘ Belle Savage,’ says my father; for he stopped there 
ven he drove up, and he know’d nothing about parishes, he 
didn’t. — ‘And what’s the lady’s name?’ says the lawyer. My 
father was struck all of a heap. ‘ Blessed if I know,’ says he. 

— ‘ Not know ! ’ says the lawyer. — ‘ No more nor you do,’ says 
my father, ‘can’t 1 put that in arterwards?’ — ‘Impossible!’ 
says the lawyer. — ‘Wery well,’ says my father, after he’d 
thought a moment , ‘ put down Mrs. Clarke.’ — ‘ What Clarke?’ 
says the lawyer, dipping his pen in the ink. — ‘ Susan Clarke , 
Markis o’ Granby, Dorking ,’ says my father ; ‘ she’ll have me , 


Digitized by 


C )gle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 109 

if I ask her, I des-say — I never said nothing to her, bnt she’ll 
have me , I know.’ The licence was made out , and she did have 
him, and what’s more she’s got him now ; and I never had any 
of the four hundred pound , worse luck. Beg your pardon , sir,” 
said Sam, when he had concluded, “but vhen I gets on this 
here grievance, I runs on like a new barrow vith the vheel 
greased.” Having said which , and having paused for an instant 
to see whether he was wanted for anything more, Sam left 
the room. 

“Half-past nine — just the time — off a£-0aee;” said the 
gentleman , whom we need hardly introduce as Mr. Jingle. 

“ Time — for what? ” said the spinster aunt , coquettishly. 

“ Licence, dearest of angels — give notice at the church — call 
you mine , to-morrow ” — said Mr. Jingle , and he squeezed the 
spinster aunt’s hand. 

“ The licence I ” said Rachael , blushing. 

. “The licence /’repeated Mr. Jingle — 

“ In burry , post-haste for a licence , 

In burry , ding dong I come back. ” 

“ How you run on jf’ said Rachael. 

“Run on — nothing to the hours, days, weeks, months, 
years, when we’re united — run on — they’ll fly on — bolt — . 
mizzle — steam-engine — thousa unhorse power — nothing to it.” 

“ Can’t — can’t we be marrieflfciefore to-morrow morning?” 
inquired Rachael. * 

‘ ‘ Impossible — can^Ube — notice at the church— leave the 
licence to-day — ceremotfyjpome off to-morrow.” 

“ I am so terrified, lest my brother should discover us! ” said 
Rachael. 

“ Discover — nonsense— too much shaken by the break down 
— besides — extreme caution — gave up the post-chaise— walked 
on — took a hackney-coach— came to the Borough — last 
place in the world that he’d look in — ha! ha! — capital potion 
that — very.” 

“ Don’t be long ,” said the spinster, affectionately, as Mr. Jin- 
gle stuck the pinched up hat on his head. 

“ Long away from you? — Cruel charmer,” and Mr. Jingle 
skipped playfully up to the spinster aunt, imprinted a chaste kiss 
upon her lips , and danced out of the room. 

“ Dear man ! ” said the spinster, as the door closed after him. 

“ Rum old giyl,” said Mr. Jingle, as he walked down the 
passage. 

It is painful to reflect upon the perfidy of our species and we 
will not, therefore, pursue the thread of Mr. Jingle’s meditations, 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



110 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

as he wended bis way to Doctors’ Commons. It will be sufficient 
for our purpose to relate, that escaping the snares of the dragons 
in white aprons , who guard the entrance to that enchanted 
region, he reached the vicar general’s office in safety, and having 
procured a highly flattering address on parchment , from the 
Archbishop of Canterbury, to his “ trusty and well-beloved 
Alfred Jingle and Rachael Wardle , greeting he carefully de- 
posited the mystic document in his pocket, and retraced his 
steps in triumph to the Borough. 

He was yet on his way to the White Hart , when two plump 
gentlemen and one thin one, entered the yard, and looked 
round in search of some authorised person of whom they could 
make a few inquiries. Mr. Samuel Weller happened to be at 
that moment engaged in burnishing a pair of painted tops , the 
personal property of a farmer, who was refreshing himself with 
a slight lunch of two or three pounds of cold beef and a pot or 
two of porter, after the fatigues of the Borough market ; and to 
him the $in gentleman straightway advanced — 

“ My friend,” said the thin gentleman. • 

— “ You’re one o’ the advice gratis order,” thought Sam , “ or 
you wouldn’t be so werry fond o’ me all at once.” But he only 
said — “Well, sir.” 

“ My friend ,” said the thin gentleman , with a conciliatory 
hem — “ Have you got many people stopping here , now? Pretty 
busy. Eh?”' 

Sam stole a look at the inquirer. He was a little high-dried 
man , with a dark squeezed up face , and small restless black 
eyes , that kept winking and twinkling qn each side of his little 
inquisitive nose , as if they were playing a perpetual game of 
peep-bo with that feature. He was dressed all in black , with 
boots as shiny as his eyes , a low white neckcloth , and a clean 
shirt with a frill to it. A gold watch-chain , and seals, depended 
from his fob. He carried his black kid gloves in his hands , not 
on them; and as he spoke, thrust his wrists beneath his coat- 
tails , with the air of a man who was in the habit of propounding 
some regular posers. 

“ Pretty busy, eh? ” said the little man. 

“ Oh, werry well, sir,” replied Sam , “ we shan’t be bank- 
rupts , and we shan’t make our fort’ns. We eats our biled 
mutton without capers , and don’t care for horse-radish ven ye 
can get beef.” , , . 

“ Ah,” said tfoe litttemaB, “lyeu’rea wag, a’ntyou?” 

“ My eldest brother was troubled with that complaint,” said 
Sam 5 “ it may be catching — I used to sleep with him. ” 

“ This is a curious old house of yours ,” said the little man , 
looking round him. 



Digitized by 


Google 





. OF THE PICKWICK. CLUB. Ill 

“If you’d sent word you was a coming, we’d ha’ had re- 
paired*,” replied the imperturbable Sam. 

The little man seemed rather baffled by these several repulses, 
aud a short consultation took place between him and the two 
plump gentlemen. At its conclusion , the little man took a pinch 
of snuff from an oblong silver box, and was apparently on the 
point of renewing the conversation , when one of the plump 
gentlemen, who in addition to a benevolent countenance, pos- 
sessed a pair of spectacles, and a pair of black gaiters, inter- 
fered — 

“ The fact of the matter is ,” said the benevolent gentleman , 

“ that my friend here (pointing to the other plump gentleman,) 
will give you half a guinea , if you’ll answer one or two — 

“ Now, my dear sir— my dear sir,” said the little man, “ pray 
allow me — my dear sir, the very first principle to be observed 
in these cases , is this; if you place a matter in the hands of a 
professional man , you must in no way interfere in the progress 
of the business; you must repose implicit confidence in him. 
Really, Mr. (he turned to the other plump gentleman, and said) 
— I forget your friend’s name.” ^ 

“ Pickwick ,” said Mr. Wardle, for it was no other than that 
jolly personage. 

“ Ah, Pickwick— really, Mr. Pickwick , my dear sir, excuse 
me — ’I shall be happy to receive any private suggestions of 
yours, as amicus curice, but you must see the impropriety of 
your interfering with my conduct in this case , with such an ad 
captandum argument, as the offer of half a guinea. Really, my 
dear sir, really,” and the little man took an argumentative pinch 
of snuff, and looked very profound. 

“ My only wish , sir,” said Mr. Pickwick , “ was to bring this 
very unpleasant matter to as speedy a close as possible.” 

“ Quite right — quite right,” said the little man. 

“ With which view,” continued Mr. Pickwick , “ I made use 
of the argument which my experience of men has taught me is 
the most Kkely to succeed in any case.” 

“ Ay, ay,” said the little man , “ very good , very good , in- 
deed; but you should have suggested it to me. My dear sir, I’m 
quite certain you cannot be ignorant of the extent of confidence 
which must be placed in professional men. If any authority can 
be necessary on such a point, my dear sir, let me refer you to 
the well-known case in Barnwell and — ” 

“ Never mind George Barn veil,” interrupted Sam, who had 
remained a wondering listener during this short colloquy ; 
everybody knows vhat sort of a case his was , tho’ it’s always 
been. my opinion, mind you, that the young ’ooman deserved 
scragging a precious sight more than he did. Hows’ever, that’s 


Digitized by 


Google 



112 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

neither here nor there. You want me to except of half a guinea. 
Werry well, I’m agreeable : I can’t say no fairer than that, can 
I , sir ? ( Mr. Pickwick smiled.) Then the next question is, what 
the devil do you want with me , as the man said ven he seed the 
ghost? ” 

“ We want to know ” — said Mr. Wardle. 

“ Now, my dear sir — my dear sir,” interposed the busy little 
man. 

Mr. Wardle shrugged his shoulders , and was silent 

“ We want to know,” said the little man, solemnly; “and 
we ask the question of you , in order that we may not awaken 
apprehensions inside — we want to know who you’ve got in this 
house , at present.” 

“ Who there is in the house! ” said Sam , in whose mind the 
inmates were always represented by that particular article of 
their costume, which came under his immediate superinten- 
dence. “ There’s a vooden leg in number six, there’s a pair of 
Hessians in thirteen , there’s two pair of halves in the commer* 
rial, there’s these here painted tops in the snuggery inside the 
bar, and five more tops in the coffee-room.” 

“ Nothing more? ” said the little man. 

“Stop a bit,” replied Sam, suddenly recollecting himself. 
“ Yes ; there’s a pair of Vellingtons a good deal vom , and a pair 
o’ lady’s shoes , in number five.” 

“What sort of shoes?” hastily inquired Wardle; who, to- 
gether with Mr. Pickwick , had been lost in bewilderment at the 
singular catalogue of visiters. 

“ Country make ,” replied Sam. 

“ Any maker’s name? ” 

“ Brown.” 

“Whereof?” 

“ Muggleton.” 

“ It is them ,” exclaimed Wardle. “ By Heavens, we’ve found 
them.” 

“ Hush ! ” said Sam. “ The Vellingtons has gone to Doctors’ 
Commons.” 

“ No ,” said the little man. 

“ Yes , for a licence.” 

“ We’re in time,” exclaimed Wardle. “ Show us the room; 
not a moment is to be lost.” 

“ Pray, my dear sir — pray,” said the little man; “ caution , 
caution.” He drew from his pocket a red silk purse , and looked 
very hard at Sam as he drew out a sovereign. 

Sam grinned expressively. 

“ Show us into the room at once, without announcing us,” 
said the little man , “ and it’s yours.” 


Digitized by 


Google 




OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 113 

Sam threw the painted tops into a corner, and led the way 
through a dark passage , and up a wide staircase. He paused at 
the end of a second passageyand held out his hand. 

“ Here it is,” whispered the attorney, as he deposited the 
money in the hand of their guide. 

The man stepped forward for a few paces , followed by the 
two friends and their legal adviser. He stopped at a door. 

“ Is this the room? ” murmured the little gentleman. 

Sam nodded assent. 

Old Wardle opened the door ; and the whole three walked 
into the room just as Mr. Jingle, who had that moment return- 
ed , had produced the licence to the spinster aunt. 

The spinster uttered a loud shriek , and , throwing herself in 
a chair, covered her face with her hands. Mr. Jingle crumpled 
up the licence, and thrust it into his coat-pocket. The unwel- 
come visiters advanced into the middle of the room. 

“ You — you are a nice rascal, ar’n’t you? ” exclaimed Wardle, 
breathless with passion. 

“ My dear sir, my dear sir,” said the little man , laying his 
hat on the table. “Pray, consider — pray. Scandalum mag - 
natum , defamation of character, action for damages. Calm 
yourself , my dear sir, pray 

“ How dare you drag my sister from my house? ” said the old 
man. 

“Ay — ay — very good,” said the little gentleman, “you 
may ask that. How dare you , sir ? — eh , sir? ” # 

“ Who the devil are you?” inquired Mr. Jingle , in so fierce 
a tone, that the little gentleman involuntarily fell back a step or 
two. 

“ Who is he , you scoundrel,” interposed Wardle. “ He’s my 
lawyer, Mr. Perker, of Gray’s inn. Perker, I’ll have this fellow 
prosecuted — indicted — I’ll — I’ll — damme , I’ll ruin him. And 
you,” continued Mr. Wardle turning abruptly round to his sis- 
ter, “ you Rachael, at a time of life when you ought to know 
better, what do you mean by running away with a vagabond, 
disgracing your family r and making yourself miserable > Get on 
your bonnet , and come back. Call a hackney-coach there , di- 
rectly, and bring this lady’s bill, d’ye hear — d’ye hear?” 

“ Cert’nly, sir,” replied Sam, who, had answered Wardle’s 
violent ringing of the bell wittia d/egree of celerity, which must 
have appeared marvellous 4©-, anybody ,tWho didn’t know that 
his eye had been applied to the outside of the key-hole during 
the whole interview. 

“ Get on your bonnet,” repeated Wardle. 

“ Do nothing of the kind,” said Jingle. “Leave the room, 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



114 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

sir — no business here — lady’s free to act as she pleases — more 
than one-and-twenty.” 

“ More than one-and-twenty!” ejaculated Wardle , contemp- 
tuously. “ More than one-and-forty ! ” 

“ I a’nt,” said the spinster aunt , her indignation getting the 
better of her determination to faint. 

“ You are,” replied Wardle, “ you’re fifty if you’re an hour.” 

Here the spinster aunt uttered a loud shriek, and became 
senseless. 

“A glass of water,” said the humane Mr. Pickwick, sum- 
moning the landlady. 

“A glass of water! ’’said the passionate Wardle. “Bring 
a bucket , and throw it all over her ; it’ll do her good , and she 
richly deserves it.” 

“Ugh, you brute!” ejaculated the kind-hearted landlady. 
“ Poor dear.” And with sundry ejaculations, of “ Come now, 
there’s a dear — drink a little of this — it’ll do you good — don’t 
give way so — there’s a love,” etc. etc. the landlady, assisted 
by a chambermaid , proceeded to vinegar the forehead , beat the 
hands , titillate the nose , and unlace the stays of the spinster 
aunt , and to administer such other restoratives as are usually 
applied by compassionate females to ladies who are endeavour- 
ing to ferment themselves into hysterics. 

“ Coach is ready, sir,” said Sam, appearing at the door. 

“ Come along,” cried Wardle. “ I’ll carry her down stairs.” 

At this proposition, the hysterics came on with redoubled 
violence. 

The landlady was about to enter a very violent protest against 
this proceeding , and had already given vent to an indignant 
inquiry whether Mr. Wardle considered himself a lord of the 
creation , when Mr. Jingle interposed — 

“ Boots,” said he , “ get me an officer.” 

“ Stay, stay,” said little Mr. Perker. “ Consider, sir, con- 
sider.” 

“ I’ll not consider,” replied Jingle , “ she’s her own mistress 
— see 'yho dares to take her away — unless she wishes it.” 

“ I won't be taken away,” murmured the spinster aunt, “ I 
don't wish it.” ( Here there was a frightful relapse. ) 

“ My dear sir,” said the little man, in a low tone, taking Mr. 
Wardle and Mr. Pickwick apart : “ My dear sir, we’re in a very 
awkward situation. It’s a distressing case — very •, I never knew 
one more so 5 but really, my dear sir, really we have no power 
to control this lady’s actions. I warned you before we came , 
my dear sir, that there was nothing to look to but a compro- 
mise.” 

There was a short pause. 


Digitized by 


Google 





OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 115 

“ What kind of compromise would you recommend? ” inquir- 
ed Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Why, my dear sir, our Mend's in an unpleasant position — 
very much so. We must' be content to suffer some pecuniary 
loss.” 

“ I’ll suffer any, rather than submit to this disgrace , and let 
her, fool as she is , be made miserable for life,” said Wardle. 

“ I rather think it can be done,” said the bustling little man. 
“ Mr. Jingle, will you step with us into the next room for a mo- 
ment?” 

Mr. Jingle assented , and the quartette walked into an empty 
apartment. • 

“ Now, sir,” said the little man , as he carefully closed the 
door, “is there no way of accommodating this matter — step 
this way, sir, for a moment — into this window, sir, where we 
can be alone — there, sir, there, pray sit down, sir. Now, my 
dear sir, between you and I, we know very well , my dear sir, that 
you have run off with this lady for the sake of her money. Don’t 
frown, sir, don’t frown ; I say, between you and I, we know it. 
We are both men of the world, and we know very well that our 
friends here , are not — eh ?” 

Mr. Jingle’s face gradually relaxed ; and something distantly 
resembling a wink , quivered for an instant in his left eye. 

“ Very good , very good,” said the little man , observing the 
impression he had made. “ Now the fact is, that beyond a few 
hundreds, the lady has little or nothing till the death of her 
mother — fine old lady, my dear sir.” * 

“ Old,” said Mr. Jingle, briefly but emphatically. 

“ Why, yes,!’ said the attorney, with a slight cough. “You 
are right , my dear sir, she is rather old. She comes of an old 
family though, my dear sir ; old in every sense of the word. The 
founder of that family came into Kent , when Julius Caesar in- 
vaded Britain — only one member of it, since, who hasn’t lived 
to eighty-five, and he was beheaded by one of the Henrys. The 
old lady is not seventy-three now, my dear sir.” The little man 
paused , and took a pinch of snuff. 

“ Well cried Mr. Jingle. 

“ Well , my dear sir — you don’t take snuff? — ah ! so much the 
better— expensive habit — well , my dear sir, you’re a fine young 
man , man of the world — able to push your fortune, if you had 
capital, eh?” 

“ Well ,” said Mr. Jingle again. 

“ Do you comprehend me? ” 

“Not quite.” 

“ Don’t you think — now, my .dear sir, I put it to you , don’t 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



1 16 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

you think — that fifty pounds and liberty, would be better than 
Miss Wardle and expectation?” • 

‘ ‘ Won’t do — not half enough ! ” said Mr. Jingle , rising. 

“Nay, nay, my dear sir,” remonstrated the little attorney, 
seizing him by the button. “ Good round sum — a man like you 
could treble it in no time — great deal to be done with fifty 
pounds , my dear sir.” 

“ More to be done with a hundred and fifty,” replied Mr. Jin- 
gle, coolly. 

“Well, my dear sir, we won’t waste time in splitting straws,” 
resumed the little man , “say — say — seventy.” 

“ Won’t do ,” said Mr. Jingle. 

“ Don’t go away, my dear sir — pray don’t hurry,” said the 
little man. “ Eighty 5 come : I’ll write you a cheque at once.” 

“ Won’t do , said Mr. Jingle. 

“ Well, my dear sir, well,” said the little man , still detaining 
him 5 “ just tell me what will do.” 

“ Expensive affair,” said Mr. Jingle. “ Money out of pocket 
— posting , nine pounds ; licence, three — that’s twelve — com- 
pensation , a hundred — hundred and twelve— Breach of honour 
— and loss of the lady — ” 

“ Yes , my dear sir, yes ,” said the little man , with a knowing 
look , “ never mind the last two items. That’s a hundred and 
twelve — say a hundred — come.” 

“ And twenty,” said Mr. Jingle. 

“ Come , come , I’ll write you a cheque ,” said the little man 5 
and down he sat at the table for that purpose. 

“ I’ll make it payable the day after to-morrow,” said the little 
man , with a look towards Mr. Wardle $ “ and we can get the 
lady away, meanwhile.” Mr. Wardle sullenly nodded assent. 

“ A hundred ,” said the little man. 

“ And twenty,” said Mr. Jingle. 

“ My dear sir,” remonstrated the little man. 

“ Give it him ,” interposed Mr. Wardle , “and let him go.” 

The cheque was written by the little gentleman , and pocketed 
by Mr. Jingle. 

“ Now, leave this house instantly ! ” said Wardle, starting up. 

“My dear sir,” urged the little man. 

“And mind,” said Mr. Wardle, “ that nothing should have 
induced me to make this compromise— not even a regard for my 
family — if I had not known, that the moment you got any modey 
in that pocket of yours , you’d go to the devil faster, if possible , 
than you would without it — ” 

“ My dear sir,” urged the little man again. 

“ Be quiet, Perker,” resumed Wardle. “ Leave the rootn , 
sir.” - 


Digitized by 


Goo< 



OP THE PICKWICK CLUB. I IT 

“Off directly,” said the unabashed Jingle. “Bye — bye — 
Pickwick.” 

If any dispassionate spectator could have beheld the counte- 
nance of the illustrious man , whose name forms the leading 
feature of the title of this work , during the latter part of this 
conversation , he would have been almost induced to wonder 
that the indignant fire which flashed from his eyes, did not melt 
the glasses of his spectacles — so majestic was his wrath. His 
nostrils dilated , and his fists clenched involuntarily, as he heard 
himself addressed by the villain. But he restrained himself again 
— he did not pulverise him. 

“Here,” continued the hardened traitor, tossing the licence 
at Mr. Pickwick’s feet; “ get the name altered — take home the 
lady — doforTuppy.” 

Mr. Pickwick was a philosopher, but philosophers are only 
men in armour, after all. The shaft had reached him, penetrated 
through his philosophical harness , to his very heart. In the 
frenzy of his rage , he hurled the inkstand madly forward , and 
followed it up himself. But Mr. Jingle had disappeared , and he 
found himself caught in the arms of Sam. 

“Hallo,” said that eccentric functionary, “furniter’s cheap 
vere you come from. Self-acting ink , that ’ere ; it’s wrote your 
mark upon the wall, old'gen’lm’n. Hold still, sir : wot’s the use 
o’ runnin’ arter a man as has made his lucky, and got to t’ other 
end of the Borough by this time? ” 

Mr. Pickwick’s mind , like those of alk truly great men , was 
open to conviction. He was a quick, and powerful reasoner ; 
and a moment’s reflection sufficed to remind him of the impo- 
tency of his rage. It subsided as quickly as it had been roused. 
He panted for breath , and : looked benignantly round upon his 
friends. 

Shall we tell the lamentations that ensued , when Miss Wardle 
found herself deserted by the faithless Jingle ? Shall we extract 
Mr. Pickwick’s masterly description of that heart-rending scene? 
His note-book, blotted with the tears of sympathising huma- 
nity, lies open before us ; one word , and it is in the printer’s 
hands. But, no! we will be resolute! We will not wring the 
public bosom , with the delineation of such suffering ! 

Slowly And sadly did the two friends and the deserted lady, 
return next day in the Muggleton heavy coach. Dimly and 
darkly had the sombre shadows of a summer’s night fallen upon 
all around, when they again reached Dingley Dell , and stood 
within the entrance to Manor Farm. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



118 


POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


CHAPTER XII. 

INVOLVING ANOTHER JOURNEY , AND AN ANTIQUARIAN DISCOVERY. RECORDING HR. PICK,- 

WIC&’S DETERMINATION TO BE PRESENT AT AN ELECTION ; AND CONTAINING A 

MANUSCRIPT OF THE OLD CLERGYMAN’S. 

A night of quiet and repose in the profound silence of Dingley 
Dell , and an hour’s breathing of its fresh and fragrant air on the 
ensuing morning, completely recovered Mr. Pickwick from the 
effects of his late fatigue of body and anxiety of mind. That 
illustrious man had been separated from his friends and fol- 
lowers , for two whole days ; and it was with a degree of pleasure 
and delight, which no common imagination can adequately 
conceive , that he stepped forward to greet Mr. Winkle and 
Mr. Snodgrass , as he encountered those gentlemen on his return 
from his early walk. The pleasure was mutual ; for who could 
ever gaze on Mr. Pickwick’s beaming face without experiencing 
the sensation ? But still a cloud seemed to hang over his com- 
panions which that great man could not but be sensible of, and 
was wholly at a loss to account for. There was a mysterious air 
about them both , as unusual as it was alarming. 

“ And how said Mr. Pickwick , when he had grasped his 
followers by the hand , and exchanged warm salutations of wel- 
come; “ how is Tupman? ” 

Mr. Winkle , to whom the question was more peculiarly 
addressed , made no reply. He turned away his head , and ap- 
peared absorbed in melancholy reflection. 

“ Snodgrass,” said Mr. Pickwick, earnestly, “ how is our 
friend — he is not ill? ” 

“ No,” replied Mr. Snodgrass; and a tear trembled on his 
sentimental eye-lid , like a rain-drop on a window-frame. “ No ; 
he is not ill.” 

Mr. Pickwick stopped, and gazed on each of his friends in turn. 

“ Winkle — Snodgrass ,” said Mr. Pickwick , “ what does this 
mean? Where is our friend? What has happened? Speak — I 
conjure , I entreat — nay, I command you , speak.” 

There was a solemnity — a dignity — in Mr. Pickwick’s manner , 
not to be withstood. 

“ He is gone ,” said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ Gone! ” exclaimed Mr, Pickwick , “ gone ! ” 

“ Gone,” repeated Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ Where?” ejaculated Mr. Pickwick. 

“ We can only guess , from that communication ,” replied 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 119 

Mr. Snodgrass, taking a letter from his pocket, and placing it 
in his. friend’s hand. “ Yesterday morning, when a. letter was 
received from Mr. Wardle , stating that you would be home with 
his sister at night , the melancholy which had hung over our 
friend during the whole of the previous day, was observed to in- 
crease. He shortly afterwards disappeared : he was missing 
during the whole day, and in the evening this letter was brought 
by the hostler from the Crown , at Muggleton. It had "been left 
in his charge in the morning, with a strict injunction that it 
should not be delivered until night.” 

Mr. Pickwick opened the epistle. It was in his friend’s hand- 
writing , and these were its contents : 

“ My dear Pickwick ,” 

“ You, my dear friend, are placed far beyond the reach of 
many mortal frailties and weaknesses which ordinary people 
cannot overcome. You do not know what it is , at one blow , to 
be deserted by a lovely and fascinating creature , and to fall a 
victim to the artifices of a villain , who hid the grin of cunning 
.beneath the mask of friendship. I hope you never may. 

* “ Any letter, addressed to me at the Leather Bottle, Cobham, 
Kent , will be forwarded — supposing I still exist. I hasten from 
the sight of that world , which has become odious to me. Should 
I hasten from it altogether, pity — forgive me. Life , my dear 
Pickwick , has- become insupportable to me. The spirit which 
burns within us , is a porter’s knot , on which to rest the heavy 
load Of worldly cares and troubles ; and when that spirit fails us , 
the burden is too heavy to be borne. We sink beneath it. You 
may tell Rachael — Ah , that name ! — ” 

• “Tracy Tupman.” 

“ We must leave this place, directly,” said M. Pickwick, as 
he refolded the note. “ It would not have been decent for us to 
remain here, under any circumstances , after what has happened; 
and now we are bound to follow in search of our friend.” And so 
saying , he led the way to the house. 

His intention was rapidly communicated. The entreaties to 
remain were pressing, but Mr. Pickwick was inflexible. Business, 
he said , required his immediate attendance. 

The old clergyman was present. 

“ You are not really going? ” said he, taking Mr. Pick- 
wick aside. 

Mr. Pickwick reiterated his former determination. 

“ Then here ,” said the old gentleman, “ is a little manuscript, 
which I had hoped to have the pleasure of reading to you myself. 


Digitized by v^.oc e 



120 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

I found it on the death of a friend of mine — a medical man, 
engaged in our County Lunatic Asylum — among a variety of 
papers, which I had the option of destroying or preserving, as 
I thought proper. I can hardly believe that the manuscript is 
genuine, though it certainly is not in my friend’s hand. However, 
whether it be the genuine production of a maniac , or founded 
upon the ravings of some unhappy being , which I think more 
probable , read it, and judge for yourself.” 

Mr. Pickwick received the manuscript, and parted from the 
benevolent old gentleman with many expressions of good-will 
and esteem. 

It was a more difficult task to take leave of the inmates of 
Manor Farm , from whom they had received so much hospitality 
and kindness. Mr. Pickwick kissed the young ladies — we were 
going to say, as if they were his own daughters , only as he 
might possibly have infused a little more warmth into the salu- 
tation , the comparison would not be quite appropriate — hugged 
the old lady with filial cordiality, and patted the rosy cheeks of 
the female servants in a most patriarchal manner, as he slipped 
into the hands of each some more substantial expressions of his 
approval. The exchange of cordialities with their fine old host^ 
and Mr. Trundle , were even more hearty and prolonged 5 and 
it was not until Mr. Snodgrass had been several times called for* 
and at last emerged from a dark passage followed soon after by 
Emily (whose bright eyes looked unusually dim) that the three 
friends were enabled to tear themselves from their friendly 
entertainers. Many a backward look they gave at the Farm , as 
they walked slowly away, and many a kiss did Mr. Snodgrass 
waft in the air, in acknowledgment of something very like a 
lady’s handkerchief, which was waved from one of the upper 
windows, until a turn of the lahe hid the old house from their sight. 

At Muggleton they procured a conveyance to Rochester. By 
the time they reached the last-named place, the violence of their 
grief had sufficiently abated to admit of their making a very ex- 
cellent early dinner 5 and having procured the necessary infor- 
mation relative to the rdkd , the three friends set forward again 
in the afternoon to walk to Cobham. 

A delightful walk it was : for it was a pleasant afternoon in 
June , and their way lay through a deep and shady wood , cooled 
by the light wind which gently rustled the thick foliage , and 
enlivened by the songs of the birds that perched upon the boughs. 
The ivy and the mos» crept in thick clusters over the old trees , 
and the soft green turf overspread the ground like a silken mat. 
They emerged upon an open park , with an ancient hall , display- 
ing the quaint and picturesque architecture of Elizabeth’s time. 
Long vistas of stately oaks and elm trees appeared on every side 1 




OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 121 

large herds of deer were cropping the fresh grass •, and occa- 
sionally a startled hare scoured along the ground, with the speed 
of the shadows thrown by the light clouds which sweep across 
a sunny landscape like a passing breath of summer. 

“ If this,” said Mr. Pickwick, looking about him; “ if this 
were the place to which all who are troubled with our friend’s 
complaint came, I fancy their old attachment to this world would 
very soon return.” 

“ I think so too ,” said Mr. Winkle. 

“ And really,” added Mr. Pickwick , after half an hour’s walk- 
ing had brought them to the village , “ really for a misanthrope’s 
choice , this is one of the prettiest and most desirable places of 
residence I ever met with.” 

In this opinion also , both Mr. Winkle and Mr. Snodgrass 
expressed their concurrence ; and having been directed to the 
Leather Bottle , a clean and commodious village ale-house , the 
three travellers entered , and at once inquired for a gentleman 
of the name of Tupman. 0 

“ Show the gentlemen into the parlour, Tom ,” said the land- 
lady. 

. A stout country lad opened a door at the end of the passage , 
and the three friends entered a long , low-roofed room , furnish- 
ed with a large number of high-backed leather-cushioned chairs, 
of fantastic shapes, and embellished with a great variety of old 
portraits and roughly-coloured prints of some antiquity. At the 
upper end of the room was a table , with a white cloth upon it, 
well covered with a roast fowl , bacon , ale , and et ceteras ; and 
at the table sat Mr. Tupman , looking as unlike a man who had 
taken his leave of the world , as possible. 

On the entrance of his friends, that gentleman laid down his 
knife and fork , and with a mournful air advanced to meet them. 

“ I did not expect to see you here ,” he said , as he grasped 
Mr. Pickwick’s hand. “ It’s very kind.” 

“ Ah ! ’’ said Mr. Pickwick , sitting down , and wiping from 
his forehead the perspiration which the walk had engendered. 
“ Finish your dinner, and walk out with me. I wish to speak 
to you alone.” 

Mr. Tupman did as he was desired ; and Mr. Pickwick having 
refreshed himself with a copious draught of ale, waited his 
friend’s leisure. The dinner was quickly despatched , and they 
walked out together. 

For half an hour, their forms might«have been seen pacing 
the churchyard to and fro, while Mr. Pickwick was engaged in 
combatting his companion’s resolution. Any repetition of his 
arguments would be useless ; fort what language could convey 
to them that energy and force which their great originator’s 


Digitized by 


Google 



122 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

manner communicated? Whether Mr. Tupman was already 
tired of retirement, or whether he was wholly unable to resist 
the eloquent appeal which was made to him , matters not , he 
did not resist it at last. 

“ It mattered little to him ,” he said , “ where he dragged out 
the miserable remainder of his days : and since his friend laid 
so much stress upon his humble companionship, he was willing 
to share his adventures.” 

Mr. Pickwick smiled ; they shook hands ; and walked back to 
re-join their companions. 

It was at this moment that M. Pickwick made that immortal 
discovery, which has been the pride and boast of his friends, and 
the envy of every antiquarian in this or*any other country. They 
had passed the door of their inn , and walked a little way down 
the village , before they recollected the precise spot in which it 
stood. As they turned back , Mr. Pickwick’s eye fell upon a small 
broken stone, partially buried in the ground, in front of a cottage- 
door. He paused. ♦ 

“ This is very strange,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ What is strange? ” inquired Mr. Tupman, staring eagprh 
at every object near him , but the right one. “ God bless me .. * 
what’s the matter ? ” 

This last was an ejaculation of irrepressible astonishment, 
occasioned by seeing Mr. Pickwick , in his enthusiasm for dis- 
covery, fall on his knees before the little stone , and commence 
wiping the dust off it with his pocket-handkerchief. 

“ There is an inscription here,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Is it possible! ” said Mr. Tupman. 

“ lean discern,” continued Mr. Pickwick , rubbing away with 
all his might, and gazing intently through his spectacles : “ 1 
can discern a cross, and a B , and then a T. This is important,” 
continued Mr. Pickwick, starting up. “ This is some very old 
inscription , existing perhaps long before the ancient alms-houses 
in this place. It must not be lost;” 

He tapped at the cottage-door. A labouring man opened it.. 

“ Do you know how this stone came here , my friend?” in- 
quired the benevolent Mr. Pickwick. 

“ No, I doan’t, sir,” replied the man , civilly. “ It was here 
long afore I war born , or any on us.” 

Mr. Pickwick glanced triumphantly at his companion. 

“ You — you — are not particularly attached to it, I daresay,” 
said Mr. Pickwick , trembling with anxiety. “ You wouldn’t 
mind selling it, now?” 

“ Ah! but who’d buy it?” inquired the man , with an expres- 
sion of face which he probably meant to be very cunning. > 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 123 

“ I’ll give you ten shillings for it, at once,” said Mr. Pick- 
wick, “ if you would take it up for me.” 

The astonishment of the village may be easily imagined , when 
(the little stone having been raised with one wrench of a spade) 
Mr. Pickwick, by dint of great personal exertion , bore it with 
his own hands to the inn , and after having carefully washed it , 
deposited it on the table. 

The exultation and joy of the Pickwickians knew no bounds , 
when their patience and assiduity, their washing and scraping, 
were crowned with success. The stone was uneven and broken , 
and the letters were straggling and irregular, but the following 
fragment of an inscription was clearly to be deciphered : 

+ 

B I L S T 

v u 

P 8 H I 
8. M. 

ARK. 

Mr. Pickwick’s eyes sparkled with delight, as he sat and 
gloated over the treasure he had discovered. He had attained 
one of the greatest objects of his ambition. In a county known 
to abound in remains of the early ages ; in a village in which 
there still existed some memorials of the olden time, he — he , 
the Chairman of the Pickwick Club — had discovered a strange 
and curious inscription of unquestionable antiquity , which had 
wholly escaped the observation of the many learned men who 
had preceded him. He could hardly trust the evidence of his 
senses. 

“ This — this,” said he, “ determines me. We return to town, 
to-morrow.” 

“ To-morrow ! ” exclaimed his admiring followers.. 

“ To-morrow,” said Mr. Pickwick. “ This treasure must be 
at once deposited where it can be thoroughly investigated , and 
properly understood. I have another reason for this step. In a 
few days , an election is to take place for the borough of Eatans- 
will, at which Mr. Perker, a gentleman whom I lately met, is 
the agent of one of the candidates. We will behold, and minutely 
examine, a scene so interesting to every Englishman.” 

“ We will ,” was the animated cry of three voices. 

Mr. Pickwick looked round him. The attachment and fervour 
of his followers lighted up a glow of enthusiasm within him. 
He was their leader, and he felt it. 

“ Let us celebrate this happy meeting , with a convivial 
glass,” said he. This proposition, like the other, was received 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



124 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

with unanimous applause. And having himself deposited the 
important stone in a small deal box , purchased from the land- 
lady for the purpose , he placed himself in an arm-chair at the 
head of the table; and the evening was devoted to festivity and 
conversation. ' 

It was past eleven o’clock — a late hour for the little village 
of Cobham — when Mr. Pickwick retired to the bed-room 
which had been prepared for his reception. He threw open the 
lattice-window, and setting his light upon the table, fell into a 
train of meditation on the hurried events of the two preceding 
days. 

The hour and the place were both favourable to contempla- 
tion; Mr. Pickwick was roused by the church-clock striking 
twelve. The first stroke of the hour sounded solemnly in his ear, 
but when the bell ceased, the stillness seemed insupportable; — 
he almost felt as if he had lost a companion. He was nervous and 
excited ; and hastily undressing himself, and placing his light 
in the chimney, got into bed. 

Every one has experienced that disagreeable state of mind , in 
which a sensation of bodily weariness in vain contends against 
an inability to sleep. It was Mr. Pickwick’s condition at • this 
moment : he tossed first on one side and then on the other ; and 
perseveringly closed his eyes as if to coax himself to slumber. 
It was of no use. Whether it was the unwonted exertion*he had 
undergone, or the heat, or the brandy and water, or the strange 
bed — whatever it was, his thoughts kept reverting very un- 
comfortably to the grim pictures down stairs, and the old 
stories to which they had given rise in the course of the evening. 
After half an hour’s tumbling about , he came to the unsatisfac- 
tory conclusion , that it was of no use trying to sleep ; so he got 
up and partially dressed himself. Anything, he thought, was 
better than lying there fancying all kinds of horrors. He looked 
out of thp window — it was very dark. He walked about the 
room — it was very lonely. 

He had taken a few turns from the door to the window, and 
from the window to the door, when the clergyman’s manuscript 
for the first time entered his head. It was a good thought. If it 
failed to interest him , it might send him to sleep. He took it 
from his coat-pocket, and drawing a small table towards his 
bed-side, trimmed the light, put on his spectacles, and com- 
posed himself to read. It was a strange hand-writing , and the 
paper was much soiled and blotted. The title gave him a sudden 
start, too ; and he could not avoid casting a wistful glance round 
the room. Reflecting on the absurdity of giving way to such 
feelings , however, he trimmed the light again , and read as fol- 
lows : 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 


125 . 


a madman’s MANUSCRIPT. 

“ Yes! — a madman’s ! How that word would have struck to 
my heart, many years ago ! How it would have roused the ter- 
ror that used to come upon me sometimes ; sending the blood 
hissing and tingling through my veins, ’till the cold dew of fear 
stood in large drops upon my skin, and my knees knocked to- 
gether with fright! I like it now though. It’s a fine name. Shew 
me the monarch whose angry frown was ever feared like the 
glare of a madman’s eye — wjiose cord and axe were ever half 
so sure as a madman’s gripe. Ho.'ho! It’s a grand thing to be 
mad ! to be peeped at like a wild lion through the iron bars — 
to gnash one’s teeth and howl, through the long still night, to 
the merry ring of a heavy chain — and to roll and twine among 
.the straw, transported with such brave music. Hurrah for the 
madhouse ! Oh, it’s a rare place ! 

“ I remember days when I was afraid of being mad; when 
I used to start from my sleep , and fall upon my knees, and pray 
to be spared from the curse of my race ; when I rushed from the 
sight of merriment or "happiness , to hide myself in some lonely 
place , and spend the weary hours in watching the progress of 
the fever that was to consume my brain. I knew that madness 
was mixed up with my very blood, and the marrow of my bones; 
that one generation had passed away without the pestilence 
appearing among them , and that I was the first in whom it 
would revive. 1 knew it must be so : that so it always had been, 
and so it ever would be; and when I cowered in some obscure 
corner of a crowded room , and saw men whispeT, and point , 
and turn their eyes towards me , I knew they were telling each 
other of the doomed madman; and I slunk away again to mope 
in solitude. 

“ I did this for years ; long, long years they were. /The nights 
here are long sometimes — very long ; but they are nothing to 
the restless nights, and dreadful dreams 1 had at that time. It 
makes me cold to remember them. Large dusky forms with sly 
and jeering faces crouched in the corners of the room, and bent 
over my bed at night , tempting me to madness. They told me 
in low whispers , that the floor of the old house in which my 
father’s father died , was stained with his own blood , shed by 
his own hand in raging madness. I drove my fingers into my 
6ars, but they screamed into my head till the room rang with 
it , that in one generation before him the madness slumbered , 
but that his grandfather had lived for years with his hands fet- 
tered to the ground , to prevent his tearing himself to pieces. I 
knew, thej^ told the truth — I knew it well. I had found it out 


Digitized by 


Google 



POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


126 

years before, though they had tried to keep it from me. Ha ! ha ! 
I was too cunning for them, madman as they thought me. 

“ At last It came upon me, and I wondered how I could ever 
have feared it. I could go into the world now, and laugh and 
shout with the best among them. I knew I was mad, but they 
did not even suspect it. How I used to hug myself with delight, 
when I thought of the fine trick I was playing them after their 
old pointing and leering, when I was not mad, but only dreading 
that I might one day become so ! And how I used to laugh for 
joy, when I was alone, and thought how well I kept my secret, 
and how quickly my kind friends would have fallen from me , 
if they had known the truth. I could have screamed with 
ecstacy when I dined alone with some fine roaring fellow, to 
think how pale he would have turned , and how fast he would 
have run , if he had known that the dear friend who sat close to 
him , sharpening a bright glittering knife , was a madman with, 
all the power, and half the will , to plunge it in his heart Oh , 
it was a merry life ! 

“Riches became mine, wealth poured in upon me, and I 
rioted in pleasures enhanced a thousand-fold to me by the con- 
sciousness of my well-kept secret. I inherited an estate. The 
law — the eagle-eyed law itsejf, had been deceived, and had 
handed over disputed thousands to a madman’s hands. Where 
was the wit of the sharp-sighted men of sound mind? Where 
the dexterity of the lawyers , eager to discover a flaw ? The 
madman’s cunning had over-reached them all. 

“ I had money. How I was courted ! I spent it profusely. 
How I was praised ! How those three proud overbearing bro- 
thers humbled themselves before me! The old white-headed 
father, too — such deference — such respect — such devoted 
friendship — why he worshipped me. The old man had a 
daughter, and the young men a sister , and all the five were 
poor. I was rich •, and when I married the girl , I saw a smile 
of triumph play upon the faces of her needy relatives, as they 
thought of their well-planned scheme, and their fine prize. It 
was for me to smile. To smile ! To laugh outright , and tear 
my hair, and roll upon the ground with shrieks of merriment. 
They little thought they had married her to a madman. 

“Stay. If they had known it, would they have saved her? 
A sister’s happiness against her husband’s gold. The lightest 
feather I blow into the air, against the gay chain that ornaments 
my body ! 

“ In one thing I was deceived with all my cunning. If I liad 
not been mad — for though we madmen are sharp-witted 
enough , we get bewildered sometimes — I should have known 
that the girl would rather have been placed , stiff arffl cold in a 


Digitized by 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 127 

dull leaden coffin / than borne an envied bride to my rich , glit- 
tering , house. I should have known that her heart was with 
the dark-eyed boy whose name I once heard her breathe in her 
troubled sleep ; and 'that she had been sacrificed to me , to re- 
lieve the poverty of the old white-headed man, and the haughty 
brothers. 

“ I don’t remember forms or faces now, but I know the girl 
was beautiful. I know she was; for in the bright moonlight 
nights , when I start up from my sleep , and all is quiet about 
me, I see, standing still and motionless in one corner of this 
cell , a slight and wasted figure with long black hair, which 
streaming down her back, stirs with no earthly wind, and eyes 
that fix their gaze on me , and never wink or close. Hush ! the 
blood chills at my heart as I write it down — that form is her’Sj 
the face is very pale, and the eyes are glassy bright; but I know 
them well. That figure never moves; it never frowns and 
mouths as others do, that fill this place sometimes; but it is 
much more dreadful to me , even than the spirits that tempted 
me many years ago — it comes fresh from the grave ; and is so 
very death-like. 

“ For nearly a year I saw that face grow paler; for nearly a 
year, I saw the tears steal down the mournful cheeks , and never 
knew the cause. I found it out at last though. They could not 
keep it from me long. She had never liked me ; I had never 
thought she did : she despised my wealth , and hated the splen- 
dour in which she lived ; — I had not expected that. She loved 
another. This I had never thought of. Strange feelings came 
over me, and thoughts forced upon me by some secret power, 
whirled round and round my brain. I did not hate her, though 
I hated the boy she still wept for. I pitied — yes, I pitied — the 
wretched life to which her cold and selfish relations had doomed 
her. I knew that she could not live long , but the thought that 
before her death she might give birth to some ill-fated being , 
destined to hand down madness to its offspring, determined me. 
I resolved to kill her. 

“ For many weeks I thought of poison, and then of drowning, 
and then of fire. A fine sight the grand house in flames, and the 
madman’s wife smouldering away to cinders. Think of the jest 
of a large reward , too , and of some sane man swinging in the 
wind for a deed he never did , and all through a madman’s 
cunning ! I thought often of this , but I gave it up at last. Oh ! 
the pleasure of strapping the razor day after day, feeling the 
sharp edge, and thinking of the gash one stroke of its thin bright 
point would make ! 

“ At last the old spirits who had been with me so often before, 
whispered in my ear that the time was come, and thrust the 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



1 28 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

open razor into my hand. I grasped it firmly, rose softly from 
the bed , and leaned over my sleeping wife. Her face was buried 
in her hands. 1 withdrew them softly, and they fell listlessly on 
her bosom. She had been weeping ; for the traces of the tears 
were still wet upon her cheek. Her face was calm and placid ; 
and even as I looked upon it , a tranquil smile lighted up her 
pale features. I laid my hand softly on her shoulder. She started 
— it was only a passing dream. I leant forward again. She 
screamed, and woke. 

“ One motion of my hand , and she would never again have 
uttered cry or sound. But I was startled , and drew back. Her 
eyes were fixed on mine. I know not how it was , but they 
cowed and frightened me-, and I quailed beneath them. She 
rose from the bed , still gazing fixedly and steadily on me. I 
trembled 5 the razor was in my hand , but I could not move. 
She made towards the door. As she neared it , she turned, and 
withdrew her eyes from my face. The spell was broken. I 
bounded forward, and clutched her by the arm. Uttering shriek 
upon shriek, she sunk upon the ground. 

“ Now I could have killed her without a struggle ; but the 
house was alarmed. I heard the tread of footsteps on the stairs. 

I replaced the razor in its usual drawer, unfastened the door, 
and called loudly for assistance. 

“ They came, and raised her, and placed her on the bed. She 
lay bereft of animation for hours; and when life, look, and 
speech returned, her senses had deserted her, and she raved 
wildly and furiously. 

“ Doctors were called in — great men who rolled up to my 
door in easy carriages , with fine horses and gaudy servants. 
They were at her bedside.for weeks. They had a great meeting, 
and consulted together in low and solemn voices in another 
room. One , the cleverest and most celebrated among them , 
took me aside, and bidding me prepare for the worst, told me — 
me , the madman ! — that my wife was mad. He stood close beside 
me at an open window, his eyes looking in my face , and his 
hand laid upon my arm. With one effort, I could have hurled 
him into the street beneath. It would have been rare sport to 
have done it ; but my secret was at stake , and I let him go. A • 
few days after, they told me I must place her under some 
restraint : I must provide a keeper for her. I! I went into the 
open fields where none could hear me , and laughed till the air 
resounded with my shouts ! 

“ She died next day. The white-headed old man followed her 
to the grave , and the proud brothers dropped a tear over the 
insensible corpse of her, whose sufferings they had regarded in 
her life-time with muscles of iron. All this was food for nay 


Digitized by 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 129 

secret mirth, and I laughed behind the wlrite handkerchief which 
I held up to my face , as we rode home, ’till the tears came into 
my eyes. 

“But though I had carried my object and killed her,. I was 
restless and disturbed , and I felt that before long , my secret 
must be known. I could not hide the wild mirth and joy which 
boiled within me, and made me, when I was alone at home, 
jump up and beat my hands together, and dance round and 
round , and roar N aloud. When I went out , and saw the busy 
crowds hurrying about the streets , or to the theatre , and heard 
the sound of music, and beheld the people dancing, I felt such 
glee , that I could have rushed among them , and torn them to 
pieces limb from limb , and howled in transport. But I ground 
my teeth , and struck my feet upon the floor , and drove my 
sharp nails into my hands. I kept it down ; and no one knew I 
was a madman yet. 

“ I remember — though it’s one of the last things I can re- 
member : for now I mix realities with my dreams, and having 
so much to do , and being always hurried here , have no time to 
separate the two , from some strange confusion in which they 
get involved — I remember how I let it out at last. Ha ! ha ! I 
think I see their frightened looks now, and feel the ease with 
which I flung them from me , and dashed my clenched fist into 
their white faces, and then flew like the wind, and left them 
screaming and shouting far behind. The strength of a giant 
comes upon me when I think of it. There — see how this iron 
bar bends beneath my furious wrench. I could snap it like a 
twig , only there are long galleries here with many doors — I 
don’t think I could find my way along them : and even if I could, 
I know there are iron gates below which they keep locked and 
barred. They know what a clever madman I have been , and 
they are proud to have me here , to show. 

“ Let me see ; —yes, I had been out. It was late at night when 
I reached home , and found the proudest of the three proud 
brothers, waiting 'to see me — urgent business he said : I recol- 
lect it well. I hated that man with all a madman’s hate. Many 
arid many a time had my fingers longed to tear him. They told 
me he was there. I ran swiftly up stairs. He had a word to say 
to me. I dismissed the servants. It was late , and we were alone 
together — for the first time. 

. “ I kept my eyes carefully from him at first, for I knew what 
he little thought— and I gloried in the knowledge— that the 
light of madness gleamed from them like fire. We sat in.silence 
for a few minutes. He spoke at last. My recent dissipation, 
and strange remarks, made so soon after his sister’s death, 
were an insult to her memory. Coupling together many circum- 


Digitized by 


Google 





130 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

stances which had at first escaped his observation , he thought 
I had not treated her well. He wished to know whether he wa» 
right in inferring that I meant to cast a reproach upon her me- 
mory, and a disrespect upon her family. It was due to the uni- 
form he wore, to demand this explanation. 

“ This man had a commission in the army — a commission , 
purchased with my money, and his sister’s misery. This was 
the man who had been foremost in the plot to ensnare me , and 
grasp my wealth. This was the man who had been the main 
instrument in forcing his sister to wed me*, well knowing that 
her heart was given to that puling boy. Due ! Due to his uniform ! 
The livery of his degradation ! I turned my eyes upon him — I 
could not help it — but I spoke not a word. 

I saw the sudden change that came upon him , beneath my 
gaze. He, was a bold man , but the colour faded from his face, 
and he drew back his chair. I dragged mine nearer to him ; and 
as I laughed — I was very merry then — I saw him shudder. I 
felt the madness rising within me. He was afraid of me. 

“ * You were very fond of your sister when she was alive’ — 
I said — ‘Very.’ 

“ He looked uneasily round him, and I saw his hand grasp 
the back of his chair : but he said nothing. 

“ ‘ You villain,’ said I, * I found you out*, I discovered your 
hellish plots against me ; 1 know her heart was fixed on some 
one else before you compelled her to marry me. I know it — I 
know it.’ 

“ He jumped suddenly from his chair, brandished it aloft, and 
bid me stand back — for I took care to be getting closer to him, 
all the time I spoke. 

“ I screamed rather than talked , for I felt tumultuous passions 
eddying through my veins’, and the old spirits whispering and 
■%x,. taunting me to tear his heart out. 

“ ‘ Damn you/ said I , starting up, and rushing upon him ; ‘ I 
killed her. I am a madman. Down with you. Blood, blood, I 
will have it.’ 

“ I turned aside with one blow, the chair he hurled at me in 
his terror, and closed with him; and with a heavy crash, we 
, rolled upon the floor together. 

“ It was a fine struggle that, for he was a tall strong man , 
fighting for his life; and I, a powerful madman, thirsting to 
destroy him. I knew no strength could equal mine, and I was 
righj; Right, again, though a madman! His struggles grew 
fainter. I knelt upon his chest, and clasped his brawny throat, 
firmly with both hands. His face grew purple ; his eyes were 
starting from his head, and with protruded tongue, he seemed 
to mock me. I squeezed the tighter. j 


Digitized by Google 





OF THE PICKWICK. CLUB. 131 

“ The door was suddenly burst open with a loud noise, and 
a crowd of people rushed forward, crying aloud to each other, 
to secure the madman. 

“ My secret was out ; and my only struggle now, was for 
liberty and freedom. I gained my feet before a hand was on me, 
threw myself among my assailants , and cleared my way with 
my strong arm as if I bore a hatchet in my hand , and hewed 
them down before me. I gained the door, dropped over the banis- 
ters , and in an instant was in the street. 

“ Straight and swift I ran , and no one dared to stop me. I 
heard the noise of feet behind , and redoubled my speed. It grew 
fainter and fainter in the distance , and at length died away al- 
together : but on I bounded, through marsh and rivulet, over 
fence and wall , with a wild shout which was taken up by the 
strange beings that flocked around me on every side, and swelled 
the sound, till it pierced the air. I was borne upon the arms of 
demons who swept along upon the wind, and bore down bank 
and hedge before them , and spun me round and round with a 
rustle and a speed that made my head swim , until at last they 
threw me from them with a violent shock, and I fell heavily 
upon the earth. When I woke I found myself here — here in 
this gay cell where the sun-light seldom comes , and the moon 
steals in , in rays which only serve to show the dark shadows 
about me, and that silent figure in its old corner. When I lie 
awake , I can sometimes hear strange shrieks and cries from 
distant parts of this large place. What they are, I know not; 
but they neither come from that pale form , nor does it regard 
them. For from the first shades of dusk ’till the earliest light of 
morning , it still stands motionless in the same place, listening to 
the music of my iron chain , and watching my gambols on my 
straw bed.” # 

At the end of the manuscript, was written , in another hand, 
this note : — 

[ The unhappy man whose ravings are recorded above , was a 
melancholy instance of the baneful results of energies misdirected 
in early life, and excesses prolonged until their consequences 
could never be repaired. The thoughtless riot, dissipation, and 
debauchery of his younger days, produced fever and delirium. 
The first effects of th6 latter was the strange delusion , founded 
upon a well-known medical theory, strongly contended for by 
some, and as strongly contested by others, that an hereditary 
madness existed in his family. This produced a settled gloom , 
which in time developed a morbid insanity, and finally ter- 
minated in raving madness. There is every reason to believe 
that the events he detailed , though distorted in the description 
by his diseased imagination , really happened. It is only matter 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



*32 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

of wonder to those who were acquainted with the vices of his 
early career, that his passions, when no longer controlled by 
reason , did not lead him to the commission of still more fright- 
ful deeds. ] 

Mr. Pickwick’s candle was just expiring in the socket , as he 
concluded the perusal of the old clergyman’s manuscript; and 
when the light went suddenly out, without any previous flicker 
by way of warning , it communicated a very considerable start 
to his excited frame. Hastily throwing off such articles of clothing 
as he had put on when he rose from his uneasy bed , and casting 
a fearful glance around , he once more scrambled hastily between 
the sheets , and soon fell fast asleep. 

The sun was shining brilliantly into his chamber when he 
awoke, and the morning was far advanced. The gloom which 
had oppressed him on the previous njght , had disappeared with 
the dark shadows which shrouded the landscape, and his 
thoughts and feelings were as light and gay as the morning itself. 
After a hearty breakfast , the four gentlemen sallied forth to walk 
to Gravesend , followed by a man bearing the stone in its deal 
box. They reached that town about one o’clock (their luggage 
they had directed to be forwarded to the City, from Rochester) , 
and being fortunate enough to secure places on the outside of a 
coach , arrived in London in sound health and spirits , on that 
same afternoon. 

The next three or four days were occupied with the pre- 
parations which were necessary for their journey to the borough 
of Eatanswill. As any reference to that most important under- 
taking demands a separate chapter, we may devote the few lines 
which remain at the close of this , to narrate , with great brevity, 
the history of the antiquarian discovery. 

It appears from the Transactions of the Club , then , that 
Mr. Pickwick lectured upon the discovery at a General Club 
Meeting , convened on the night succeeding their return , and 
entered into a variety of ingenious and erudite speculations on 
the meaning of the inscription. It also appears that a skilful artist 
executed a faithful delineation of the curiosity, which was en- 
graven on stone , and presented to the Royal Antiquarian Society, 
and other learned bodies — that heart-burnings and jealousies 
without number, were created by rival controversies which were 
penned upon the subject — and that Mr. Pickwick himself wrote 
a pamphlet, containing ninety-six pages of very small print, and 
twenty-seven different readings of the inscription. That three old 
gentlemen cut off their eldest sons with a shilling a-piece fpr 
presuming to doubt the antiquity of the fragment — and that om 
enthusiastic individual cut himself off prematurely, in despair 


Digitized by 


Google 


mm 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 133 

being unable to fathom its meaning. That Mr. Pickwick was 
elected an honorary member of seventeen native and foreign 
societies , for making the discovery ; that none of the seventeen 
could make anything of it, but that all the seventeen agreed it 
was very extraordinary. 

Mr. Blotton, indeed — and the name will be doomed to the 
undying contempt of those who cultivate the mysterious and the 
sublime — Mr. Blotton, we say, with the doubt and cavilling 
peculiar to vulgar minds, presumed to state a view of the case, 
as degrading as ridiculous. Mr. Blotton , with a mean desire to 
tarnish the lustre of the immortal name of Pickwick , actually 
undertook a journey to Cobham in person , and, on his return , 
sarcastically observed in an oration at the club , that he had seen 
the man from whom the stone was purchased ; that the man 
presumed the stone to be ancient, but solemnly denied the 
antiquity of the inscription — inasmuch as he represented it to 
have been rudely carved by himself in an idle mood , and to 
display letters intended to bear neither more nor less than the 
simple construction of — “Bill Slumps, his mark:” and that 
Mr. Stumps, being little in the habit of original composition , and 
more accustomed to be guided by the sound of words than by the 
strict rules of orthography, had omitted the concluding “L” of 
his Christian name. 

The Pickwick Club , as might have been expected from so 
enlightened an Institution , received this statement with the 
contempt it deserved , expelled the presumptuous and ill-con- 
ditioned Blotton from the Society, and voted Mr. Pickwick a pair 
of gold spectacles , in token of their conGdence and approbation ; 
in return for which , Mr. Pickwick caused a portrait of himself 
to be painted, and hung up in the club-room — which portrait , 
by the by, he did nfit wish to have destroyed when he grew a 
few years older. 

Mr. Blotton was ejected but not conquered. He also wrote a 
pamphlet , addressed to the seventeen learned societies , con- 
taining a repetition of the statement he had already made , and 
rather more than half intimating his opinion that the seventeen 
learned societies aforesaid , were so many ‘ * humbugs.” Hereupon 
the virtuous indignation of the seventeen learned societies being 
roused , several fresh pamphlets appeared ; the foreign learned 
societies corresponded with the native learned societies , the 
native learned societies translated the pamphlets of the foreign 
learned societies into English, the foreign learned societies 
translated the pamphlets of the native learned societies into all 
sorts of languages : and thus commenced that celebrated scien- 
tific discussion, so well known to all men as the Pickwick Con- 
troversy. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



134 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

But this base attempt to injure Mr. Pickwick , recoiled upon 
the head of its calumnious author. The seventeen learned 
societies unanimously voted the presumptuous Blotton an 
ignorant meddler ; and forthwith set to work upon more 
treatises than ever. And to this day the stone remains an illegible 
monument of Mr. Pickwick’s greatness, and a lasting trophy of 
the littleness of his enemies. 


CHAPTER XHI. 

DESCRIPTIVE OF A VERY IMPORTANT PROCEEDING ON THE PART OF MR. PICKWICK ; 

NO LESS AN EPOCH IN HIS LIFE, THAN IN THIS HISTORY. 

Mr. Pickwick’s apartments in Goswell-street, although on a 
limited scale, were not only of a very neat and comfortable de- 
scription , but peculiarly adapted for the residence of a man of his 
genius and observation. His sitting-room was thefirst floor front , 
his bed-room the second floor front 5 and thus , whether he were 
sitting at his desk in the parlour, or standing before the dressing- 
glass in his dormitory, he had an equal opportunity of contem- 
plating human nature in all the numerous phases it exhibits, in 
that not more populous than popular thoroughfare. His landlady, 
Mrs. Bardell— the relict and sole executrix of a deceased custom- 
house officer — was a comely woman of bustling manners and 
agreeable appearance , with a natural genius for cooking , im- 
proved by study and long practice into an exquisite talent. There 
were no. children , no servants, no fowls. Tfie only other inmates 
of the house were a large man , and a ^hall boy 5 the first a 
lodger, the second a production of Mrs.^Bardell’s. The large 
man was always home precisely at ten o’clock at night, at which 
hour he regularly condensed himself into the limits of a dwarfish 
French bedstead in the back parlour 5 and the infantine sports 
and gymnastic exercises of Master Bardell were exclusively con- 
fined to the neighbouring pavements and gutters. Cleanliness 
and quiet reigned throughout the house $ and in it Mr. Pick- 
wick’s will was law. 

To any one acquainted with these points of the domestic eco- 
nomy of the establishment , and conversant with the admirable 
regulation of Mr. Pickwick’s mind, his appearance and behaviour 
on the morning previous to that which had been fixed upon for 
the journey to Eatanswill, would have been most mysterious 
and unaccountable. He paced the room to and fro with hurried 
steps , popped his head out of the window at intervals of about 
three minutes each , constantly referred to his watch , and exht» 


Digitized by 


Google 

'll 11 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 135 

bited many other manifestations of impatience , very unusual 
with him. It was evident that something of great importance was 
in contemplation , but what that something was not even Mrs. 
Bardell herself had been enabled to discover. 

“ Mrs. Bardell ,” said Mr. Pickwick at last , as that amiable 
female approached the termination of a prolonged dusting of the 
apartment — 

“ Sir,” said Mrs. Bardell. 

“ Your little boy is a very long time gone.” 

“ Why it’s a good long way to the Borough , sir,” remons- 
trated Mrs. Bardell. 

“ Ah ,” said Mr. Pickwick , “ very true ; so it is.” 

-*x_Mr. Pickwick relapsed into silence, and Mrs. Bardell resumed 
her dusting. 

“ Mrs. Bardell ,” said Mr. Pickwick , at the expiration of a few 
miuutes. _ 

“ Sir,” said Mrs. Bardell again. 

“ Do you think it’s a much greater expense to keep two people, 
than to keep one?” 

“La, Mr. Pickwick,” said Mrs. Bardell, colouring up to 5 the 
very border of her cap , as she fancied she observed a species of 
matrimonial twinkle in the eyes of her lodger ; “ La , Mr. Pick- 
wick , what a question ! ” 

“ Well , but do you ?” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“ That depends — ” said Mrs. Bardell , approaching the duster 
very near to Mr. Pickwick’s elbow, which was planted on the 
table ; “ that depends ,a good deal upon the person , you know, 
Mr. Pickwick ; and whether it’s a saving and careful person, sir.” 

“ That’s very true,” said Mr. Pickwick; “ but the person I 
have in my eye ( here he looked very hard at Mrs. Bardell ) I 
think possesses these qualities , and lias , moreover, a consider- 
able knowledge of the world , and a great deal of sharpness, 
Mrs. Bardell ; which may be of material use to me.” 

“ La , Mr. Pickwick ,” said Mrs. Bardell ; the crimson rising 
to her cap-border again. 

“ I do,” said Mr. Pickwick , growing energetic , as was his 
wont in speaking of a subject which interested him , “ I do 
indeed ; and to tell you the truth, Mrs. Bardell , I have made up 
my mind.” ♦ 

“ Dear me, sir,” exclaimed Mrs. Bardell. 

“ You’ll think it very strange now,” said the amiable Mr. Pick- 
wick , with a good-humoured glance at his companion , “ that I 
never consulted you about this matter, and never even mentioned 
it , till I sent your little boy out this morning— eh?” 

Mrs. Bardell could only reply by a look. She had long wor- 
shipped Mr. Pickwick at a distance , but here she was , all at 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



136 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

once , raised to a pinnacle to which her wildest and most extra* 
vagant hopes had never dared to aspire. Mr. Pickwick was going 
to propose — a deliberate plan , too — sent her little boy to the 
Borough , to get him out of the way — how thoughtful — how 
considerate ! 

“ Well said Mr. Pickwick , “ what do you think ?” 

“ Oh , Mr. Pickwick ,” said Mrs. Bardell , trembling with 
agitation , “ you’re very kind , sir.” 

“ It’ll save you a good deal of trouble , won’t it?” said Mr. 
Pickwick. 

“ Oh , I never thought anything of the trouble , sir,” replied 
Mrs; Bardell; “ and, of course, 1 should take more trouble to 
please you then, than ever; but it is so kind of you, Mr. Pick- 
wick , to have so much consideration for my loneliness.” 

“ Ah , to be sure ,” said Mr. Pickwick ; “ I never thought of 
that. When I am in town , you’ll always have somebody to sit 
with you. To be sure, so you will.” 

“I ’m sure I ought to be a very happy woman,” said Mrs. 
Bardell. 

“And your little boy — ” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Bless his heart ,” interposed Mrs. Bardell , with a maternal 
sob. 

“ He , too , will have' a companion ,” resumed Mr. Pickwick , 
“a lively one , who’ll teach him , I’ll be bound , more tricks in a 
week , than he would ever learn in a year.” And Mr. Pickwick 
smiled placidly. 

“ Oh ybu dear — ” said Mrs. Bardell. 

Mr. Pickwick started. 

“ Oh you kind , good , playful dear,” said Mrs. Bardell ; and 
without more ado , she rose from her chair, and flung her arms 
round Mr. Pickwick’s neck , with a cataract of tears , and a cho- 
rus of sobs. 

“Bless my soul,” cried the astonished Mr. Pickwick; — 
“Mrs. Bardell, my good woman— dear me, what a situation 
— pray consider. —Mrs. Bardell, don’t— if anybody should 
come — ” 

“Oh, let them come,” exclaimed Mrs. Bardell, frantically; 
“ I’ll never leave you— dear, kind, good soul and , with these 
words , Mrs. Bardell clung the tighter. » 

“ Mercy upon me ,” said Mr. Pickwick, struggling violently; 
“I hear somebody coming up the stairs. Don’t, don’t, there’s a 
good creature , don’t.” But entreaty and Temonstrance were 
alike unavailing : for Mrs. Bardell had fainted in Mr. Pickwick’s 
arms ; and before he could gain time to deposit her on a chair, 
Master Bardell entered the room , ushering in Mr. Tupman , 
Mr. Winkle , and Mr. Snodgrass. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 137 

Mr. Pickwick was struck motionless and speechless. He stood 
With his lovely burden in his arms, gazing vacantly on the 
countenances of his friends, without the slightest attempt at re- 
cognition or explanation. They, in their turn, stared at him; 
and Master Bardell , in his turn , stared at everybody. 

The astonishment of the Pickwickians was so absorbing , and 
the perplexity of Mr. Pickwick was so extreme , that they might 
have remained in exactly the same relative situations until the 
suspended animation of the lady was restored , had it Hot been 
for a most beautiful and touching expression of filial affection 
on the part of her youthful son. Clad in a tight suit of corderoy, 
spangled with brass buttons of a very considerable size , he at 
first stood at the door astounded and uncertain , but by degrees 
the impression that his mother must have suffered some personal 
damage , pervaded his partially developed mind ; and consider- 
ing Mr. Pickwick as the aggressor, he set up an appalling and 
semi-earthly kind of howling , and butting forward with his head, 
commenced assailing that immortal gentleman about the back 
and legs , with such blows and pinches as the strength of his 
arm , and the violence of his excitement, allowed. 

• “ Take this little villain away,” said the agonised Mr. Pick- 
wick ; “ he’s mad.” 

“ What is the matter? ” said the three tongue-tied Pick- 
wickians. 

“I don’t know,” replied Mr. Pickwick, pettishly. “Take 
away the boy — (liere Mr. Winkle carried the interesting boy, 
screaming and struggling, to the further end of the apartment.) 
— Now help me lead this woman down stairs.” 

“Oh, I am better now,” said Mrs. Bardell, faintly. 

“Let me lead you down stairs,” said the ever gallant Mr. 
Tupman. 

“Thank you, sir — thank you;” exclaimed Mrs. Bardell hys- 
terically. And down stairs she was led accordingly, accompanied 
by her affectionate son. 

“I cannot conceive — ” said Mr. Pickwick, when his friend 
returned — “I cannot conceive what has been the matter with 
that woman. I had merely announced to her my intention of 
keeping a man servant, when -she fell into the extraordinary 
paroxysm in which you found her. Very extraordinary thing.” 

“ Very,” said ms three friends. 

“Placed me in such an extremely awkward situation ,” con- 
tinued Mr. Pickwiqjt. 

“Very;” was the reply of his followers, as they coughed 
slightly, and looked dubiously at each other. 

This behaviour was not lost upon Mr. Pickwick. He remark- 
ed their incredulity. They evidently suspected him. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


138 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ There is a man in the passage now,” said Mr. Tupman. 

“ It’s the man I spoke to you about,” said Mr. Pickwick ; “ I 
sent for him to the Borough this morning. Have the goodness 
to call him up , Snodgrass.” 

Mr. Snodgrass did as he was desired ; and Mr. Samuel Weller 
forthwith presented himself. 

“ Oh — you remember me, I suppose?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ I should think so ,” replied Sam , with a patronising Wink. 
“Queer start that ’ere, but he was one too many for you, 
warn’t he? Up to snuff and a pinch or two over — eh?” 

“Never mind that matter now,” said Mr. Pickwick hastily : 
“ I want to speak to you about something else. Sit down.” 

“ Thank’ee , sir,” said Sam. And down he sat without farther 
bidding , having previously deposited his old white hat on the 
landing outside the door. “ Ta’nta werry good ’un to look at,” 
said Sam , “ but it’s an astonishin’ ’un to wear *, and afore the 
brim went, it was a wery handsome tile. Hows’ever it’s lighter 
without it, that’s one thing, and every hole lets in some air, that’s 
another— wentilation gossamer I calls it.” On the delivery of 
this sentiment , Mr. Weller smiled agreeably upon the assembled 
Pickwickians. 

“ Now with regard to the matter on which I, with the concur- 
rence of these gentlemen , sent for you ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ That’s the pint, sir,” interposed Sam; “out with it , as the 
father said to the child , ven he swallowed a farden.” 

“ We want to know, in the first place,” said Mr. Pickwick , 
“ whether you have any reason to be discontented with your 
present situation.” 

“ Afore I answers that ’ere question , gen’l’m’n ,” replied Mr. 
Weller, “/ should like to know, in the first place , whether 
you’re a goin’ to purwide me vith a better.” 

A sunbeam of placid benevolence played on Mr. Pickwick’s 
features as he said , “I have half made up my mind to engago 
you myself.” 

“ Have you , though ?” said Sam. 

Mr. Pickwick nodded in the affirmative. 

“ Wages?” inquired Sam. 

“ Twelve pounds a year,” replied Mr. Pickwick. • 

“Clothes?” % 

“ Two suits.” 

“Work?” 

“ To attend upon me ; and travel, about frith me and theso 
gentlemen here.” ' 

“ Take the bill down ,” said Sam , emphatically.' “ I’m let to 
a single gentleman , and the terms is agreed upon.” 

“ You accept the situation?” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 


Digitized by 


Gaogle 



OF THE PICKWICK. CLUB. 139 

“ Cert’nly,” replied Sam. “ If the clothes fits me half as well 
as the place , they’ll do.” 

“ You can get a character, of course?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Ask the landlady o’ the White Hart about that , sir,” replied 
Sam. 

“ Can you come this evening?” 

“ I’ll get into the clothes this minute , if they’re here ,” said 
Sam with great alacrity. 

“ Call at eight this evening,” said Mr. Pickwick , and if the in- 
quiries are satisfactory, they shall be provided.” 

With the single exception of one amiable indiscretion, in 
which an assistant housemaid had equally participated y the 
history of Mr. Weller’s conduct was so very blameless J that 
Mr. Pickwick felt fully justified in closing the engagement that 
very evening. With the promptness and energy which charac- 
terised not only the public proceedings, but all the private actions 
of this extraordinary man , he at once led his new attendant to 
one of those convenient emporiums where gentlemen’s new and 
second-hand clothes are provided , and the troublesome and in- 
convenient formality of measurement dispensed with ; and before 
night had closed in , Mr. Weller was furnished with a grey coat 
with the ‘ P. C.’ button , a black hat with a cockade to it , a pink 
striped waistcoat, light breeches and gaiters, and a variety of 
other necessaries, too numerous to recapitulate. 

“Well,” said that suddenly-transformed individual, as he 
took his seat on the outside of the Eatanswill coach next 
morning ; “ I wonder vether I’m meant to be a footman , or a 
groom , or a game-keeper, or a seedsman. I looks like a sort of 
compo of every one on ’em. Never mind ; there’s change of air, 
plenty to see , and little to do ; and all this suits my complaint 
uncommon , so long life to the Pickwicks , says I.” 


CHAPTER XIV. 


SOME ACCOUNT OF EATANSWILL , OF THE STATE OF PARTIES THEREIN ; AND OF THE 
ELECTION OF A MEMBER TO SERVE IN PARLIAMENT FOR THAT ANCIENT, LOYAL, 
AND PATRIOTIC BOROUGH. 


We will frankly acknowledge , that up to the period of our 
being first immersed in the voluminous papers of the Pickwick 
club, we had never heard of Eatanswill; we will with equal 
candour admit, that we' have in vain searched for proof of the 
actual existence of such a place at the present day. Knowing 
the deep reliance to be placed on every note and statement of 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


140 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

Mr. Pickwick’s , and not presuming to set up our recollection 
against the recorded declarations of that great man , we have 
consulted every authority, bearing upon the subject , to which we 
could possibly refer. We have traced every name in schedules 
A and B , without meeting with that of Eatanswill ; we have mi- 
nutely examined every corner of the Pocket County Maps issued 
for the benefit of society by our distinguished publishers, and 
the same result has attended our investigation. We are there- 
fore led to believe, that Mr. Pickwick, with that anxious desire 
to abstain from giving offence to any, and with those delicate 
feelings for which all who knew him well know he was so emi- 
nently remarkable, purposely substituted a fictitious designation, 
for the real name of the place in which his observations were 
- made,/ We are confirmed in this belief by a little circumstance, 

apparently slight and trivial in itself, but when considered in 
this point of view, not undeserving of notice?' In Mr. Pickwick’s 
note-book , we can just trace an entry of the fact , that the places 
of himself and followers were booked by the Norwich coach ; 
but this entry was afterwards lined through , as if for the pur- 
pose of concealing even the direction in which the borough is 
situated. We will not , therefore , hazard a guess upon the sub- 
• ject , but will at once proceed with this history ; content with the 
materials which its characters have provided for us. 

It appears , then , that the Eatanswill people , like the people 
of many other small towns , considered themselves of the utmost 
and most mighty importance , and that every man in Eatanswill , 
conscious of the weight that attached to his example , felt him- 
self bound to unite , heart and soul , with one of the two great 
parties that divided the town — the Blues and the Buffs. Now 
the Blues lost no opportunity of opposing the Buffs , and the 
Buffs lost no opportunity of opposing the Blues ; and the conse- 
quence was , that whenever the Buffs and Blues na^et together at 
public meeting , Town-Hall , fair, or market , disputes and high 
words arose between them. With these dissensions it is almost 
superfluous to say that everything in Eatanswill was made a 
■party-question. If the Buffs proposed to new skylight the 
market-place , the Blues got up public meetings , and denounced 
the proceeding; if the Blues proposed the erection of an addi- 
tional pump in the High Street , the Buffs rose as one man and 
stood aghast at the enormity. There were Blue shops and Buff 
shops , Blue inns and Buff inns ; — there was a Blue aisle and a 
Buff aisle , in ihe very church itself. 

Of course it was essentially and indispensably necessary that 
each of these powerful parties should have its chosen organ and 
representative : and, accordingly, there were two newspapers in 
the town — the Eatanswill Gazette and the Eatanswill Indepen- 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 141 

dent ; the former advocating Blue principles , and the latter con- 
ducted on grounds decidedly Buff. Fine newspapers they were. 
Such leading articles, and such spirited attacks ! — “ Our worth- 
less contemporary the Gazette” — “ That disgraceful and dastard- 
ly journal the Independent ” — “ That false and scurrilous print , 
the Independent”— “ That vile and slanderous calumniator, the 
Gazette ; ” — these , and other spirit-stirring denunciations were 
strewn plentifully over the columns of each , in every number, 
and excited feelings of the most intense delight and indignation 
in the bosoms of the townspeople. 

Mr. Pickwick, with his usual foresight and sagacity, had chosen 
a peculiarly desirable moment for his visit to the borough. Never 
was such a contest known. The Honourable Samuel Slumkey, 
of Slumkey Hall , was the Blue candidate •, and Horatio Fizkin , 
Esq., of Fizkin I^dge, near Eatanswill, had been prevailed 
upon by his friends to stand forward on the Buff interest. The 
Gazette warned the electors of Eatanswill that the eyes not only 
of England, but of the whole civilised world, were upon them*, 
and the Independent imperatively demanded to know, whe- 
ther the constituency of Eatanswill were the grand fellows 
they had always taken them for, or base and servile tools, urn- 
deserving alike of the name of Englishmen and the blessings 
of freedom. Never had such a commotion agitated the town ' 
before. 

It wfelate in the evening , when Mr. Pickwick and his com- 
panions, assisted by Sam, dismounted from the roof of the 
Eatanswill coach. Large blue silk Hags were flying from the 
windows of the Town Arms Inn , and bills were posted in every 
sash, intimating, in gigantic letters, that the Honourable Sa- 
muel Slumkey’s Committee sat there daily. A crowd of idlers 
were assembled in the road , looking at a hoarse man in the 
balcony, who was apparently talking himself very red in the face 
in Mr. Slumkey’s behalf ; but the force and point of whose argu- 
ments were somewhat impaired by the perpetual beating of four 
large drums which Mr. Fizkin’s committee had stationed at the 
street corner. There was a busy little roan beside him , though, 
who took off his hat at intervals and motioned to the people to 
cheer, which they regularly did , most enthusiastically *, and as 
the red-faced gentleman went on talking till he was redder in 
the face than ever, it seemed to answer his purpose quite as well 
as if anybody had heard him. 

The Pickwickians had no sooner dismounted , Sian they were 
surrounded by a branch mob of the honest and independent, who 
forthwith set up three deafening cheers, which being responded 
to by the main body (for it’s not at all necessary for a crowd to 
know what they are cheering about) swelled into a tremendous 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



142 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

roar of triumph, which stopped even the red-faced man in the 
balcony. 

“ Hurrah ! ” shouted the mob in conclusion. 

“ One cheer more,” screamed the little fugleman in the bal- 
cony, and out shouted the mob again, as if lungs were cast iron , 
with steel works. 

“ Slumkey for ever ! ” roared the honest and independent. 

“ Slumkey for ever ! ” echoed Mr. Pickwick, taking off his hat. 

“ No Fizkin ,” roared the crowd. 

“ Certainly not ,” shouted Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Hurrah!” And then there was another roaring, like that of 
a whole menagerie when the elephant has rung the bell for the 
cold meat. 

“ Who is Slumkey?” whispered Mr. Tupman. 

“ I don’t know ,” replied Mr. Pickwick in the same tone. 
“ Hush. Don’t ask any questions. It’s always best on these oc- 
casions to do what the mob do.” 

“ But suppose there are two mobs ? ” suggested Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ Shout with the largest ,” replied Mr. Pickwick. 

Volumes could not have said more. 

They entered the house , the crowd opening right and left to 
let them pass, and cheering vociferously. The first object of con- 
sideration was to secure quarters for the night. 

“ Can we have beds here?” inquired Mr. Pickwick, sum- 
moning the waiter. 

“ Don’t know, sir,” replied the man ; “ afraid we’re full , sir — 
I’ll inquire, sir.” Away he went for that purpose, and presently 
returned , to ask whether the gentlemen were “ Blue.” 

As neither Mr. Pickwick nor his companions took any vital 
interest in the cause of either candidate , the question was rather 
a difficult one to answer. In this dilemma Mr. Pickwick be- 
thought himself of his new friend , Mr. Perker. 

“ Do you know a gentleman of the name of Perker? ” inquired 
Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Certainly, sir; Honourable Mr. Samuel Slumkey’s agent.” 

“ He is Blue , I think?” 

“ Oh yes , sir.” 

“ Then we are Blue ,” said Mr. Pickwick; but observing that 
the man looked rather doubtful at this accommodating announce- 
ment, he gave him his card, and desired him to present it to 
Mr. Perker forthwith, if he should happen to be in the house. 
The waiter retired ; and re-appearing almost immediately with a 
request that Mr. Pickwick would follow him , led the way to a 
large room on the first floor, where, seated at a long table 
covered with books and papers , was Mr. Perker. 

“ Ah — ah, my dear sir,” said the little man, advancing to 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 1 4$ 

meet him ; “ very happy to see you , my dear sir, very. Pray sit 
down. So you have carried your intention into effect. You have 
come down here to see an election — eh ? ” 

Mr. Pickwick replied in the affirmative. 

“ Spirited contest, my dear sir,” said the little man. 

“I am delighted to hear it,” said Mr. Pickwick , rubbing his 
hands; “ I like to see sturdy patriotism , on whatever side it is 
called forth ; — and so it’s a spirited contest?” 

“ Oh yes , ” said the little man , “ very much so indeed. We 
have opened all the public houses in the place , and left our ad- 
versary nothing but the beer-shops — masterly stroke of policy 
that , my dear sir , eh ? ” — and the little man smiled complacently , 
and took a large pinch of snuff. 

“And what are the probabilities as to the result of the contest?” 
inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Why doubtful , my dear sir ; rather doubtful as yet ,” replied 
the little man. “ Fizkin’s people have got three-and-thirty voters 
in the lock-up coach-house at the White Hart.” 

“ In the coach-house ! ” said Mr. Pickwick , considerably 
astonished by this second stroke of policy. 

“They keep ’em locked up there , till they want ’em,” resumed 
the little man. “ The effect of that is , you see , to prevent our 
getting at them ; and even if we could , it would be of no use, for 
they keep, them very drunk on purpose. Smart fellow Fizkin’s 
agent — very smart fellow indeed.” 

Mr. Pickwick stared , but said nothing. 

“ We are pretty confident though ,” said Mr. Perker, sinking 
his voice almost to a whisper. “ We had a little tea-party here , 
last night — five-and-forty women , my dear sir — and gave 
every one of ’em a green parasol when she went away.” 

“ A parasol ! ” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Fact , my dear sir, fact. Five-and-forty green parasols , at 
seven and six-pence a-piece. All women like finery , — extra- 
ordinary the effect of those parasols. Secured all their husbands, 
and half their brothers — beats stockings , and flannel , and all 
that sort of thing hollow. My idea , my dear air, entirely. Hail , 
rain , or sunshine , you can ’t walk half a dozen yards up the 
street, without encountering half a dozen green parasols. ” 

Here the little man indulged in a convulsion of mirth, which 
was only checked by the entrance of a third party. 

This was a tall , thin man , with a sandy-coloured head inclined 
to baldness , and a face in which solemn importance was blended 
with a look of unfathomable profundity. He was dressdd in a 
long brown surtout, with a black cloth waistcoat, and drab trou- 
sers. A double eye-glass dangled at his waistcoat, and on his head 
he wore a very low-crowned hat with a broad brim. The new 


Digitized by 


Google 



144 POSXHUMKMJS PAPERS 

comer was introduced toMn. Pickwick as- Mr. fcott, the editor of 
theEatanswill Gazette. After a few preliminary remarks, Mr. Pott 
turned round to, Mr. Piekwick., and said with solemnity — 

“ This contest excites great interest in the metropolis, sit ? ” 

“ 1 believe, it does,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ To which I have reason to know ,’lsfttd Pott, looking towards 
Mr. Pecker for oorcoboraiiWk.^t to which I have reason to know 
my article of last Saturday in some degree contributed.” 

“Not the least doubt of that," said the mtleanan.', 

“ The press is a mighty engine, sir,” said PotL 
, Mr. Pickwick yielded his fullest assent to the, proposition. 

Vi But I twist, sir,” said Pott , “ that I have never abused the 
enormous power I wield. I trust , sir, that I have never pointed 
the noble instrument which is placed in my hands, against the 
sacred bosom of private life , or the tender breast of individual 
reputation ; — I trust , sir, that I have devoted my energies to — 
to endeavours — humble they may be, humble I know they are 
—to instil those principles of — which — are — ” 

Here the editor of the Eatanswill Gazette, appearing to ramble, 
Mr. Pickwick came to his relief, and said — 

“ Certainly.” 

“ And what, sir” — said Pott — “ what, sir, letmeaskyou 
as an impartial man , is the state of the public mind in London , 
with reference to my contest with the Independent ?”. 

“ Greatly excited, no doubt,” interposed Mr. Perker, with a 
look of slyness which was very likely accidental. 

“ That contest,” said Pott, “ shall be prolonged so long as I 
have health and strength , and that portion of talent with which 
I am, gifted. From that contest, sir, although it may unsettle 
men’s minds and excite their feelings, and render them incapable 
for the discharge of the every-day duties of ordinary life; from 
that contest , sir, I will never shrink, till 1 have set my heel upon 
the Eatanswill Independent. I wish the people of London , and 
the people of this country to know, sir, that they may rely upon 
me;— that I will not desert them , that I am resolved to stand 
by them , sir, to the last.” 

“ Your conduct is most noble, sir,” said Mr. Pickwick ; and he 
grasped the handof the magnanimous Pott. 

“ You are, sir, I perceive, a man of sense and talent ,” said 
Mr. Pott , almost breathless with -the vehemence of his patriotic 
declaration. “ I am most happy, sir, to make the acquaintance 
of such a man.” • .. ► -v .j j * . 

“ Aid I ,” said Mr. Pickwick , “ feel deeply honoured by this 
expression of your opinion. Alktwetie , sit», to introduce yon to 
my fellow-travellers , the other corresponding members of the 
club I am proud to have founded.” . * . . 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 145 

“ I shall be delighted ,” said Mr. Pott. 

Mr. Pickwick withdrew, and returning with his three friends, 
presented them in due form to the editor of the Eatanswill 
Gazette. 

“ Now, my dear Pott,” said little Mr. Perker, “ the question 
is, what are we to do with our friends here? ” 

“We can stop in this house , I suppose ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Not a spare bed in the house , my dear sir —nota single bed.” 

“ Extremely awkward ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“Very,” said his fellow- voyager s. 

“ I have an idea upon this subject ,” said Mr. Pott , “ which 
I think may be very successfully adopted. They have two beds 
at the Peacock , and I can boldly say , on behalf of Mrs. Pott , 
that she will be delighted to accommodate Mr. Pickwick and any 
one of his friends , if the other two gentlemen and their servant 
do not object to shifting , as they best can , at the Peacock.” 

After repeated pressings on the part of Mr. Pott, and repeat- 
ed protestations on that of Mr. Pickwick that he could not think 
of incommoding or troubling his amiable wife , it was decided 
that this was the only feasible arrangement that could be made. 
So it was made ; and after dining together at the Town Arms, 
the friends separated , Mr. Tupman and Mr. Snodgrass repair- 
ing to the Peacock, and Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Winkle pro- 
ceeding to the mansion of Mr. Pott $ it having beenpreviously 
arranged that they should all re-assemhle at the Town Arms in 
the morning, and accompany the Honourable Samuel Slumkey’s 
procession to the place of nomination. 

Mr. Pott’s domestic circle was limited to himself and his wife. 
All men whom mighty genius has raised to a proud eminence 
in the world , have usually some little weakness which appears 
the more conspicuous from the contrast it presents to their 
general character. If Mr. Pott had a weakness, it was, perhaps, 
that he was rather too submissive to thfe somewhat contemptuous 
control and sway of his wife. We do not feel justified in laying 
any particular stress upon the fact, because on the present occa- 
sion all Mrs. Pott’s most winning ways were brought into re- 
quisition to receive the two gentlemen. 

“ My dear,” said Mr. Pott , “ Mr. Pickwick — Mr. Pickwick 
of London.” 

Mrs. Pott received Mr. Pickwick’s paternal grasp of the hand 
with enchanting sweetness ; and Mr. Winkle, who had not been 
announced at all, slided and bowed, unuoticed , in an obscure 
corner. . 

“ P. my dear — ” said Mrs. Pott. 

“ My life,” said Mr. Pott. 

“ Pray introduce the other gentleman.” 

i. 10 


Digitized by uooQle 



146 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ I beg a thousand pactions,” said Mr..' Pott. “Permit me — 
Mrs. Pott , Mr. — ” 

“ Winkle,”. said Mr., Pickwick... 

“ Winkle,” echoed Mu. Pott ; and the ceremony of introduc- 
tion was complete. . ;. 

, “,We owe you many. apologies,. ma’am,” said Mr. Pickwick, 
“ for . disturbing your domestic arrangements at so short a no- 
tice.” 

“ I beg you won’t mention it, sir,” replied the feminine Pott, 
with vivacity. “ It tea high treat to me, I assure you , to see 
any new faces; living as ,1 do, from day to day, and week to 
week., in this. dull place,. and. seeing nobody.?’ 

“, Nobody, my dear S ” exclaimed Mr. Pott , archly. 

“ Npbody but you,” retorted Mrs. Pott , with asperity. 

“ you see, Mr. Pickwick,” said the host in explanation of hie 
wife’s lament, “ that we are in some measure cut off loom many 
enjoyments and pleasures of which we might otherwise partake. 
My public station, as editor of the Eatanswill Gazette, the posi- 
tion which that paper holds in the country, my constant immer- 
sion in the vortex of politics— ” 

“ P. my dear — ” interposed Mrs. Pott. 

“ My life — ” said the editor. 

“ I wish , my dear, you would endeavour to find some topic 
of conversation in which these gentlemen might take some ra- 
tional interest.” 

“ But, my love,” said Mr. Pott, with great humility, “ Mr. 
Pickwick does take an interest in it.” 

“ It’s well for him if he can,” said Mrs. Pott, emphatically ; 
“lam wearied out of my life with your politics, and quarrels 
with the Independent, and nonsense. I am quite astonished, 
P. , at your making such an exhibition of your absurdity.” 

“ But, my dear — ” said Mr. Pott. 

“ Oh, nonsense, don’t talk to me ; ’’ said Mrs. Pott. “ Do you 
play icarte , sir ? ” 

“ I shall be very happy to learn, under your tuition,” replied 
Mr. Winkle, . 

“ Well, then , draw that little table into this window, and lei 
me get out of hearing of those prosy politics.” 

“ Jane,” said Mr. Pott, to the servant who brought in candles, 
“ go down into the office, and bring me up the file of the Ga- 
zette for Eighteen Hundred and Twenty Eight. I’ll just read 
you — ” added the editor, turning to Mr. Pickwick, “ I’ll just 
read you a few of the leaders I wrote at that time , upon the 
Buff job of appointing a new tollman to the turnpike here; I 
rather think they’ll amuse you.” 

“ I should like to hear them very much , indeed,” said . Mr. 


Digitized by 


Google 





or THE PICKWICK CLUB. 147 

Pickwick. Up came the file , and down sat the editor, with Mr. 
Pickwick at his side. 

We have in vain pored over the leaves of Mr. Pickwick’s 
note-book , in the hope of meeting with a general summary of 
these beautiful compositions. We have every reason to bfelieye 
that he was perfectly enraptured with 'the vigour and freshness 
of the style; indeed Mr. Winkle has recorded the fact' that his 
eyes were closed , as if with excess of pleasure , during the whole 
time of their perusal. ! ’■ ' " |; ' ‘ 

The announcemen t of supper put a stop both to the game at 
Ccarte , and the recapitulation of the' beauties Of the EatatisWiU 
Gazette. Mrs. Pott was in the highest spirits and theihost agree- 
able humour. Mr. Winkle had already made' considOrablerpro- 
gress in her good opinion , and she did not hesitate toinform 
him, confidentially, 'that Mr. Pickwick was “ a delightful old 
dear/’ Thesfe terms convey a familiarity of expression , in which 
few of those who were intimately acquainted with that colossal- 
minded man , would have presumed to indulge. We have pre- 
served them, nevertheless , as affording at once a touching and 
a convincing proof of the estimation in which he was held by 
every class of society, and the ease with which he made his way 
to their hearts and feelings. 

It was a late hour of the night — long after Mr. Tupman and 
Mr. Snodgrass had fallen asleep in the inmost recesses of the 
Peacock — when the two friends retired to rest. Slumber soon 
fell upon the senses of Mr. Winkle , but his feelings had been 
excited, aud his admiration roused; and for many hours after 
sleep had rendered him insensible to earthly objects , the face 
and figure of the agreeable Mrs. Pott presented themselves again 
and again to his wandering imagination. 

The noise and bustle which ushered in the morning , were 
sufficient to dispel from the mind of the most romantic visionary 
in existence , any associations but those which were immediately 
connected with the rapidly-approaching election. The beating 
of drams , the blowing of horns and trumpets, the shouting of 
men , and tramping of horses , echoed and re-echoed through 
the streets from the earliest dawn of day; and an occasional 
fight between the light skirmishers of either party, at once en- 
livened the preparations , and agreeably diversified their cha- 
racter. 

*‘'Wett; Bata ,” said Mr. Pickwick , as his valet appeared at 
hfe ftdd-lroom door, just as he was concluding his toilet; “all 
alrfe tta-day, I suppose ? ” 

“ Rcg’lai* .game , Sir,” replied' Mr. Weller ; “ our people’s a 
col-lecting down at the Town Arms, and they’re a hollering 
thems&ves hoarse already.” 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



148 POSTrtfaf'ofrS' PAPERS 

“ Ah ,” said Mr! Pickwick? “ l <iB they Went devoted' to their 
party, Sam ? ” " ' "‘V* *'f, : ni ■ 

“ Never $&e ku’6h <&W6iid$ to ’ mf *Kf4 j sijr, w ' 1 1 ’ ' ' " ' ' 1 ' ' 

“ Energetiq , eh? 1 ^^ ‘ 1 ' 

“ tJncommop ijemi^dMmT “ lVfev<jf- 7 6h& ipen^sltand drin 1 


uiiwuiiliuiu ijcuiicu uam ; i iicrui occ lycii (Irink 

so much, afore. 1 T Wp^ei( f tti^a’ift 1 ^(feeini’ l o’ tid^tiri!’^ : ’ 
' lr ,THat*s' l itne “kinuffesi 1 bf ' me" $6atr‘^ 'hdi'h *, B 'Said 

Wr Pickwick. 11 ‘ 3,fI W* "°Y "••«* T . .)< * - 

:?»' 8 88 "“'” '' ' 

'*‘i Fine , 'Jr/fen , fekrIY felfo wstifi^ I slh&lf ’,f kaid M’r'i'Pikkvftcti, 

gVm “™ f Vi,t « '•:* ' - T! "" ' ' ' ‘ 

^ Wprr^ iWiih ^‘'Varaed^ifi kncTfhe tW6‘ waiters at 

the peacock , hashedn a ^prt^iA^dVCT the indepehdettt Voters 
as supped there last nighf.” 1 1 ' N ' 

“ Pumping over independent Voters!” exclaimed Mr. Pickwick. 
“ Yes,” said his attendant, “ every man slept vere 1 he fell down ; 
we dragged 'em out ; one by one , this mornin’, and'^ut ’em 
under the pump, and they’re in reg’lar fine order,no\v. Shillin’ 
a head the committee paid for that ’ere' job.” , ' ' " /” J ' 

* ‘ Can such things be !” exclaimed theastonished Mi 1 ! Pickwick. 
“ Lord bless ydur heart,, sir,” said Sam $ “ why Whfere : w£s 
you half baptized? — that’s nothin’, that a’nt.” ' ' ' 

“ Nothing?” said Mr.'Pickwick. ' 

“Nothin’ at all, sir, implied his attendant. “ Thenightafore 
the last day o’ the last election here , thC opposite petty bribed 
the bar-maid at the X own Arms to hOcdfe the brandy and “water 
of fourteen unpolled electors as was a stoppin’ in the house.” 

“ What do you mean by ‘ hocusing’ braiidy arid water?” 
inquired Mr. Pickwick. ( , , . , 

“ Puttin’ Iaud’num in it,” replied Sam. “‘^essfe'dlf sAie did’nt 
send ’em all to sleep till twelve hours arter the election was over. 
They took one-man , up. to ,the booth , in a truck , hist asleep , by 
way of experiment,' blit it was no go— they Wpuldh’t poll, him ; 
so they broughtjhim pack', and put him to bed again.” 

“ Strange practices, tK4se said Mr. Pickwick , half speaking 
to himself , aind half addreSSing Sam. 

“Not half so strange aiamiraColouS circumstance as happen- 
ed to my own father, at an election-time , in this wery place, sir,” 
replied Sam. _ , 

“What was tha0” ihdtlife^ Mr! Piqkwick. 

“Why he drove' d ,! cdach' "ddtkq 1 here Onc'e,” s 


said Sam ; 



. >up,commffl®eo’L_ _ _ _ . Fi . 

away he goes vithihe' me^en^rj^ho'shbivs nunlii ; — iarge 
room— lots of gehTm’n— neaps of pa'pdfs 1 ," pen'S and ink, and 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF TflB JfyUB. 149 

all that ,’ere. 4 Ah , Mr. Yyeller,’ sayg Jbe genTm’n in the phaii , 
4 glad to see you , sir •, how are you ? ’ — 4 Werry well , thank ’ee , 
sir,’ says my father 4 1 hop^o^’/;e pretty middlin,’ says he — 
4 Pretty well, thank’ee , sir,’ says the jgenTm’n \ 4 sit down, 'Mr. 
Weller — pray sit down, sir.’ So my father sits down , and he 
and the gen’l’m’n looks wery hard at each other. ‘You don’t 
remember me?’ says the genTm’n?— 4 Can’t say I do,’ says my 
father — 4 Oh, I know you,’ says the genTm’n 5 4 know’d you 
veil you was a boy,’ says he. — 4 Well , I don’t remember you 
says my father— 4 That’swery odd,/ says the genTm’n — ‘Wery,’ 
says my father — 4 Y r ou must have a bad meni’ry, Mr, Weller,’ 
says the genTm’n — 4 Well, it is a wery bad ’un,’ says my Tauief — L 
4 1 thought so ,’ says the genTm’n. So then they pours him out 
a glass o’ wine, and gammons him about his driving, and gets 
him into a reg’lar good humour, and at last shoves a twenty 
pound note in his hand. 4 It’s a wery bad road between this 
and London ,’ says the gen’i’m’n — 4 Here and there it is a wery 
heavy road ,’ says my father — 4 ’Specially near the canal, I think,’ 
says the gen’l’m’n — ‘Nasty bit, that ’ere,’ says my father — 
4 Well, Mr. Weller,’ says the genTm’n, 4 you’re a wery good 
whip, and can do what you like with your horses, we know. 
We’re all wery fond 0’ you , Mr. Weller, so in case you should 
have an accident when you’re a bringing these here woters down, 
and should tip ’em over into the canal vithout hurtin’ ’em, this 
is for yourself,’ says he— ‘GenTm’n, you’re wery kind,’ says 
my father, 4 and I’ll drink your health in another glass of wine,’ 
says he ; vich he did , and then buttons up the money, aud bows 
himself out. You vouldn’t believe, sir,” continued Sam , with a 
look of inexpressible impudence at his master, 44 that on the 
wery day as he came down with them woters, his coach was 
upset on that ’ere wery spot , and ev’ry man on ’em was turned 
into the canal.” 

44 And got out again?” inquired Mr. Pickwick, hastily. 

44 Why,” replied Sam , very slowly, 44 1 rather think one old 
gentleman was missin’ ; I know his hat was found, bull a’n’t 
quite certain whether his head was in it or not. But what I look 
at, is the hex-traordinary, and wonderful coincidence, that 
arter what that genTm’n said my father’s coach should be upset 
in that wery place , and on that wery day ! ” 

44 It is , no doubt, a very extraordinary circumstance indeed,” 
said Mr. Pickwick. 44 But brush my hat, Sam, for I hear Mr. 
Winkle calling me to breakfast.” 

With these words Mr. Pickwick descended to the parlour, 
where he found breakfast laid, an^ the family already assembled. 
The meal was hastily despatched \ each of the gentlemen’s hats 

was decorated with an enormous blue favour, made up by the 

♦ 1 ■ 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



150 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS ' 

fait hands of Mrs.Pott herself, "atid'Cs Mr. Winkle had under- 
taken to escort that lady to a house top , in the immediate vici- 
nity ofthe hmUngsyMr;; Pickwick and Mr, Pott' repaired alone 
to the Town Arms, tibia 'the back widdoW ot wrtiich oneof Mr. 
Stamfcefy’s committee > w*s dddressirfg -six' small • boys^ 1 aitd one 
girl; Whbfflhe dignified 1 , at every' second sentence ,' With the im- 
posing title of “ men of Eatanawfif ' Whereat'tfte 1 6iX small boys 
afortsafd cheered tyrbdfgiously. ■■ « a- 

The stablo-tard exhibited unequivocal symptoms ofthe glory 
and Strength ofthe EatanswiH Blues, There wasaregular army 
Of bltfe j flag» ; some with bne > handle, > and some With two, exhi- 
biting appropriate devices , in golden characters four foet'high , 
and Stout in "proportion. There was a grand band «f trumpets, 
bassoons and drums, marshalled 1 four abreast, and earning their 
money, if ever men did , especially the dram heaters , who were 
VCry muscular . There were bodies of constables with 1 bine staves, 
twenty committee-men with blue scarfs, and a mobofvotots with 
bine cockades. There were electors on horseback, and electors 
a-foot. There was an open carriage and four, for theHonoarable 
Samuel Slumkey; and there were four carriages and pair, 'for his 
friends and supporters : and the flags were rustling, and the band 
was playing , and the constables were swearing , and the twenty 
committee-men were squabbling, and the mob were shouting r 
and the horses were backing, and the post-boys perspiring ; and 
everybody, and everything , then and there assembled , was for 
the special use, behoof, honour, and renown, ofthe Honourable 
Samuel Slumkey, of Shimkey Hall, oneof the candidates for the 
representation of the Borough of EatanswiH , in the Commons 
House of Parliament of the United Kingdom. 

Loud and idhg were the cheers, and mighty wasthe rustling 
of one of the blue flags , with “ Liberty of the Press” inscribed, 
thereon, when the sandy head of Mr. Pott was discerned in one 
of the windows , by the mob beneath ; and tremendous Was the 
enthusiasm when the Honourable Samuel Shimkey himself, in 
top boots, and a blue neckerchief, advanced and seized the hand 
of the said Pott, and melo-dramatically testified by gestures to 
the crowd , his ineffaceable obligations to the EatanswiH Gazette. 

“ Is everything ready ? ” said the Honourable Samuel Slumkey 
to Mr. Perker. . , . 

“ Evarything, my dear iSir/ft was the kttle man’s reply. 

“ Nothing has been omitted , I hope? ” said toe* Honourable 
Samuel Slumkey. ' '.•:>(» ■> eu«wdt --H# ja < •• 

“ Nothing has' been left amdune<my dear' sir ^nothing" what- . 
ever. There -are twentywasttodme® at thestreet doer for you to 
shake hands with 5 Mid' sik children in arms that you’re to pat on 
the head , and' inquire the age of; be particular about the chil- 


Digitized by 


Google 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 15r 

dren, my dear sir, - h- it has, , always , « great effect, that sort 
of thing.” i ..i. 7)n; 

“ 1111, take care said the Hooapjjabla Samuel Slumkey. 

“ And> perhaps,, my dear air^-’Vsaid the cautious. little man, 
H parhapsjf yon . oo^W^-J, don’t »eau-to say, it’s indispensable 
—but if you eeuUL numagnto kiasone of’em, it wouid,produce 
a very great impression, on' Hneyerowd.’’ 1 . 

“ Wouldn’t it have as good an effect iMhe proposer nr se- 
conder did tbati?” said, the honourable Samuel Slumkey. 

ft Why, lam afraid it wouldn’t}” replied theagent; “if it were 
done byyaurself , my, dear air,, 1, think, it would make you very 
popular.-” • , I! -I , .1 

“ Very well,” said the HonouvableiSamuel Slumkey y with a re- 
signedair; “then itmast be done. That/s all.” 

“ Arrange the procession ,” cried the twenty committee-men. 

, /Amidst the cheers of the assembled throng , the band, and the 
■eonsfahtes, and the committeemen, and the voters, and the 
honsemten,, and the carriages, took their places— each of the two- 
tierse vehicles being closely packed with as many gentlemen as 
cbuld manage to stand upright m it ; and that assigned to Mr. 
Pecker j containing Mr. Pickwick, Mr. Tupman , Mr. Snodgrass, 
andabouthalf a dozen of the committee beside. 

; There was a moment of awful suspense as the procession wait- 
ed for the Honourable Samuel Slumkey to step into bis carriage. 
Suddenly the crowd set up a great cheeiwg. 

“ He has come out said little Mr. Pecker, greatly excited ; 
Ike mere So as their position did not enable them to see what 
was going forward. , . 

Another cheer, much louder. 

< t“ ffe has shaken hands with the men,” eried the little agent. 
£ 1 Another cheer, far more vehement. 

" “ He has patted the babes on the head,” said Mr. Perker,. 
trembling with anxiety. > 

A roar of applause that rent the air. 

“ He has kissed one of ’em ! ” eixefarimed thedetighted little man . 
A second roar. 

, “ He has kissed another,” gasped the excited manager. 

• A third roar. 

“ He’s kissing ’em all ! ” screamed the enthusiastic little gentle- 
man. And hailed by the deafening shouts of-the multitude, the 
pvoeessioU moved on. » 

How or by what means it became mixed up with the other 
prOoessiohy and how it was over, extricated from the confusion 
consequent, thereupon -, is more than/ we can undertake to de- 
scribe ,- inasmuch)** Mr. Pickwick's hat was knocked over his 
eyes , nose , and mouth , by one poke of -a 'Buff flag staff, very 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



152 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

aftdyfW^^rjA^dwggjy.lWiW^ibeefeMwelfasbeingsurround- 
ed op, every side, when he could catebagUmpse of the scene, by 
angry and ferocious countenances otaud >of4ust , and 
by a dense crowd o| flemhstanteo |foropr<S<»tah im»el f asbeing 
fort^,fipi»rtiw.<Mw»ge»itoyBw»(j ‘Unsoen [powwiaud being per- 
sonally .engaged in,, a, pugilistic encauntenu butt, with whom , or 
boiwu iPr wiby, ho i is wholly. anable, to. state., He, then felt himself 
fqre*d,up«outft wpodcnnsteps by the persons bom behind : and 
on removing his hat, found himself surrounded by, his friends , 
imlbe-wry fcapdaida oltbethuslinga, The right 

wtw (reserved toriithei Buff : party , jand iheoen tre; fori the; mayor 
;*ad|hia pfticers t one ofwh()»r-ritihe,ft*t cnler-af Jiatanawill-r-was 
ringing, an enormous, bolh by way. of commandingsiteuee,, .while 
Mr. iHftratio,Fizkin, and the Honourable Samuel Shunkey, with 
theiri hands, upon their hearts, were bowing with the .utmost 
affability to the troubled sea of heads that inundated die open 
space iia front; and from whence arose a storm of gimps ,, and 
shoute*. and yells, and hootings, that would have done/hfinour to 
an earthquake. ini . 

‘‘There’s Winkle,” said Mr. Tupman , pulling his friend by 
the sleeve., 

‘‘ Where?” said Mr. Pickwick, putting- on his spectacles, 
which hebad fortunatflly kept in his pocket hitherto. ■ v 
..“[There,” saidM. Tupman, “ on, the top ofthat house.” And 
there, sureenough ,iathe leaden gutter of a tiled roof, were 
Mr. Winkle and Mrs. Pott, comfortably seated in a couple of 
chairs , waving their, handkerchiefs m token of recognition— a 
compliment which Mr- Pickwick returned by kissing bis, band 
to the lady. , , , . 

The proceedmgs.had not yet commenced ; and as an inactive 
crowd is generally disposed to be jocose, this very innoeen^ 
action was sufficient to awaken their facetiousness. , 

“ Oh you wicked old rascal,” eriedoneyoioe, “ looking ar ter 
the girls, are you?” i , , 

“ Oh you weneraWe sinner,’’ cried another. 

“ Putting on his spectacles to look at a married ’ooman?” said 
a third. . ... ... .... u 

“ I see him a vinkin’ at her, with his vicked old eye ,” shouted 
a fourth. . , m . ■ , , 

“ Look arter yowwitevPatty’, bellowed a fifth 5 —and then 
there wasa roar ofto*gbtqft;.i , ,/ , . „ a . 

As these taunts u^ei&ecenafmpmb With. invidious comparisons 
between Mr. Pickwick pdiSmpgetorgtoy and several witticisms 
of the. like nature, iiawdiaa they»mordoter mther, tended, to ^ con- 
vey reflections .upqgi the honoprtoflan innocent lady, Mr., Pick- 
wick’s indignation was excessive > but as silence was proclaimed 


Digitized by 


Google 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 153 

at the moment* he ' contented 'htoftSelf by -SC&tchiwg' the mebvVrth 
a look of pity for -their misguided 1 WrfndS , 'at'whietothey laughed 
. more bofeterbosty them %VBh feoannolnnoa e««r*o i t b >f> - 

“ Siletice' j*t < iekrt^theTmiyortiittebdsMte. ^"b *iy»’ a '■ 

M WhifliOjpieetflfkn igHenoe y wiki ^fce» m«yop,' witfr' «h ! «ir' Of 
pomp bfeflttt»er<hfeilofty*huiUoa? Jfrwbaihonee to ttfietoirtmend 
the crief perfortnsd anbitoertcdUftSttolUBthebell, whereupon a 
gentiemaninthei CTOWdeatteidoufcriaiifflBS*” wMchoedaskra- 
ed aftOfheiilaOghit’iiuo'i i') ; - >' 'iitinf bnnot . u."' m' u>u<>.i. ■ 

“ GeWtlemen '/btfaidf the rtayditjat Sslaud# ^itch astoew&dd 
possihlyferee htevoice-fo i<*GehttenitaU Brother eleetoraefcthe 
Borough .’of EatBnsvrHli W©‘are met here to-day,foi thmpur- 
pose ^ofchoosiBgh'ieprasehltetitse'ifttbe TOOm ofoor latest"-: " 
Here the mayor was interrupted by a voice in the erovfal. • 

‘‘ Sqocess tothe mayor! ’’cried the voice, “and may tod never 
desert’ttoe nait and sarspan business, as he got hid money toy jv 
ThidOsHusion to the professional pursuits of the orator* was 
recetred with a storm of delight , which , with a beU-aoeompani- 
ment , rendered the remainder of his speech inaudible , With the 
cxoeptioh of the concluding sentence , in which he thanked the 
meeting for the patient attention with which they had heard him 
throughout an expression of gratitude which elicited another 
burst of mirth , of about a quarter of an hour’s duration. ■ ! • ■ 
Next* a tall thin gentleman , in a very stiff white neckerchief, 
after being repeatedly desired by the crowd to “ send a boy 
home, toask whether he hadn’t left his Woice under the pillow,” 
begged to nominate a fit and proper person to represent them 
in Parliament. And when he said it was Horatio Fizkin, Esquire, 
of Fizkin Lodge, near Eatanswill , the Fizkinites applauded, and 
IheStumkeyifces groaned , so long , and so loudly, that both he 
and the seconder might have sung comic songs in lieu of speak- 
ing, without anybody’s being a bit the wiser. 

Th&feiends of Horatio Fizkin , Esquire , having had their in- 
nings, a little choleric, pink-faced man stood forward to pro- 
pose another fit and proper person to represent the electors of 
Eatanswill in Parliament ; and very swimmingly the pink-faced 
gentleman would have got on , if he had not been rather too 
choleric to entertain a sufficient perception of the fiin of the 
crowd. But after a very few sentences of figurative eloquence , 
thepink-faced.gentleman got froiii denouncing those who inter- 
rupted him in the mob, to exchanging defiances with the gentle* 
men on ;the hustings yiwtodmipuDwavoee -an uproar which re- 
dueedhim to the hecessityictfeipres&ng his deletings by serious 
pantomime, whida he' did^iand/mbfn-ieftithe' stage to his se- 
conder, triu* delivered a written speech oPbalfan hbur’s length, 
and wouldn’t be stopped,* because' >he had' sent it all tothe 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



1 54 ’ PQSTH LW0U6 i PAVERS 

GAtaWwtlliGazRttevfttnd.tbei EataflsWiUrGtHzeltehad printed it, 
-evenjuwerd* d- ,-cw j< :ii >. «• ■•. . 

Then Horatio; Fizfeim, Esquite , ofoFiekinLodge, near 
Katauswill , presented himselffdr the purpose of addressing the 
Sectors ; wjiieb he no sooner did v than the band employed by 
the- Honourable Samuel Siumkey, commenced performing with 
a power to which their strength in the morning was a trifle; in 
netuTOi for which * tbeBuff crowd* belaboured tho 'heads 1 and 
shoulders ofthe Blue -crowd ; on - which the Blob 1 crowd *6hdea- 
vopredrto dispossess themselvaS oP their very unpleasant neigh- 
bours >thflBuff crowd; anda scene of Struggling, and poshing, 
«hd) fighting ^succeeded y ;to> which we can no more do justice 
shftui (the -mayor could , although he issued ‘imperative orders to 
twelve constables to seize the ring-leaders , who might amount 
id number to two hundred and fifty, or thereabouts^ At dll these 
encounters , Horatio Fizkin , Esquire * of Fizkin Lodge , and his 
friends , waxed fierce and furious ; until at last Horatio’ Fizkin , 
Esquire , of Fizkin Lodge, begged to ask bis opponent the 
Honourable Samuel Slumkey, of Slumkey Hall, whether that 
band played by his consent ; which question the Honourable 6a- 
ntmel Slumkey declining to answer, Horatio Fizkin , Esquire, of 
Fizkin Lodge , shook his fist in the countenance of theHonour- 
able Samuel Slumkey, of Slumkey Hall ; upon which the’Honour- 
aWe Samuel Slumkey, his blood being up , defied Horatio Fizkin, 
Esquire , to mortal combat. At this violation of all known rules 
and precedents of order, the mayor commanded another fantasia 
on the ’bell, and declared that he would bring before himself, 
both Horatio Fizkin, Esquire , of Fizkin Lodge, and the Honour- 
able Samuel Slumkey, of Sknnkey Hall , and bind them over to 
keep the peace.- Upon this terrific denunciation', the supporters - 
of the two candidates interfered* and after the friends of each 
party had quarrelled in pairs for three quarters of an hour,- Ho- 
ratio Fizkin, Esquire, touched his hat to the Honourable Samuel 
Slumkey; the Honourable Samuel Slumkey touched his to Horatio 
Fizkin, Esquire : the band was stopped, tjie crowd were partially 
quieted, and Horatio Fizkin, Esquire, was permitted to proceed. 

The speeches of the two candidates, though differing in every 
other respect , afforded a beautiful tribute to the merit and high 
worth of the electors of EatansWilh Both expressed their opinion 
that a more independent , a more enlightened ,« a more public- 
spirited , a more noble-minded , a more disinterested set of men 
than those who had promised to vote for him , never existed on 
earth ; each darkly hinted his suspicions that the electors in the 
opposite mforest Had t ‘'iWinMh 1 »sfhd' besotted infirmities 

Which rendered 'them tttifft'-foi- 'flfe exercise ' of the important 
duties they were called upon to' discharge. Fizkin expressed his 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF TUB PICKWICK CLUB. 165 

readiness to do anyihinghe was wanted? Siumkey, his 
tion to do nothing that was asked of him. Both saldthftt’ttie 
trade , the manufactures , the commerce , the prosperity , of 
Eatanswill, wouid cvec be dearer to: their hearts than any 
earthly object ;addeach had it in his power to’ state , with the 
utmost confidence, that he iwas the man who wboldevohtually 
be returned. .• ” - ■; -t s*-v • - - • ■>. -.wm ••• 

Tbere was a : show; of hahdsv the mayor dedftM infaWWOf 
the Honourable ; Samuel Slumkey, of Shimkey Halh Horatio 
Fizkin Esquire , of Fizkin Lodge ;■ demanded a poll , and a-pt>ll 
was fixed accordingly. Then a rote of thanks 'Was triavedttt' tfcfe 
mayor for hisabie conduetinthe chair 1 ; and the may OP devoutly 
wishing that he had had a chair to display his able cotiduct in 
(for he had been standing during the whole proceedings'), re- 
turned thanks. The processions re-formed , the carriages rolled 
slowly through the crowd, and its members screeched and 
shouted after them as their feelings or caprice dictated. 

During the whole time of the polling, the town was in * per- 
petual fever of excitement. Everything was conducted on the 
most liberal and delightful scale. Exciseable articles were re- 
markably cheap at all the public houses ; and spring vans paraded 
the streets for the accommodation of voters who were seized 
with any temporary dizziness in the head — an epidemic which 
prevailed among the electors, during the contest, to a most 
alarming extent, and onderthe influence of which they might 
frequently be aeon lying on the pavements m a state of utter in- 
sensibility. A small’ body of electors remained on polled on the 
very test day. They were calculating and reflecting persons, who 
had not yet been convinced by the arguments of either party, 
although they had had frequent conferences with each. One hour 
before the dose of the pcdl , Mr. Perker solicited the honour of a 
private interview with these intelligent , these noble, these pa- 
triotic men. It was granted. His arguments were brief, but 
satisfactory. They went in a body to the poll; and when they 
returned, the HonourableSamuelSlumkey , of Slumkey Hall, was, 
returned also. 

CHAPTER XV. 

’ lj t rm ijji'i y • r»‘ ‘ ' 

G9M9RISIN& A BRIEF nfStHirrWV O* fHE A^ ( THK fEACOCK ASSEMBLED; 

j &?»,. wh-wn • } • 

** '■ v 'Jr *>?f< 'Hi 1 * /! -‘l 

It is pleasant to turn from cwtemplating the strife *nd turmoil 
of political existence, to the peaceful repose of private life. 
pAlthough in reality no great partisan of either side, Mr. Pickwick 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



1 56 #6STfii)iif6dS 1 forfeits ‘ 

wak'SefltefeMWfit^ Pdft’k' ^rithbjfeShv, to apply his 

WhoTMkttte' dnfl A'ffeWfidfi'tff thd ^ttcebflfrigSy Of Which the ‘last 
CHttptehdffordSadeik!rfptMtt'fcOm{HlMfftMm i HiS'dWfri1ri6ktt6i i anda. 
WCr White he Wis'thtf^W^ied ~ i W&S’'ityLk' Wihkleidle , his 
Wfufletime' being 1 devoted to pteiSantr :i #ij1ks aWi ! stidrt country 
excursions with Mrs. Pott , who never failed , when ‘Such an 
opportunity 'printed itself,' to seek some relief from' the tedious 
mowotMty %he So'cottsttfntly Obtnpiarhi'ed of. The tWd gentlemen 
belHg 1 “tboS 1 ' Completely -donwktlciated 'in the editor’s house, 
Mw Thpman and Mr: Suodgfasi 1 wk-e in a great measure cast 
updn 'their own resource!*; Taking but little interest in public 
affairs 1 J ‘they beguiled 'their 'time Chiefly with such amusements 
as Ihe'Pfeaeock afforded', wliich were limited 1 to a bagatelle-board 
in the first floor, and a sequestered skittle-ground in theb&ck 
yardc ln the science and nicety of both these recreations ,• which 
are far more abstruse than ordinary men suppose , they were 
gradually initiated by Mr. Weller, who possessed • {T perfect 
knowledge of such pastimes. Thus , notwithstanding that they 
were in a great measure deprived of the comfort and advantage 
of Mr. Pickwick’s society, they were still enabled to beguile the 
time, and to prevent its hanging heavily on their hands. 1 

It was in the evening, however, that the Peacock presented 
attractions which enabled the two friends to resist, even the in- 
vitations of the talented , though prosily inclined , Mr. Pott. It 
was in the evening that the commercial room” was filled with 
a social circle , whose characters and manners it was the delight 
of MhTupman to observe; whose sayings and doings it was the 
habit of Mr. Snodgrass to note down. 

Most people know what sort of places commercial rooms 
usually are. That of the Peacock differed in no material respect 
from the generality of such apartments ; that is to say,' ft was a 
large bare-looking room , the furniture of which had no doubt 
been better When it was newer, with a spacious table in the 
centre, and a variety of smaller dittos in the corners'; ati eiten- 
sive assortment of variously shaped chairs , and an old Turkey 
carpet, bearing about the same relative proportion to the size of 
the room, as a lady’s pocket-handkerchief might to the floor of 
a watch-box. The wails were garnished with one or two large 
maps; and several weather-beaten rough great coats, with com- 
plicated capes, dangled from a Id ng row of pegs in one corner. 
The mantel-shelf was ornamtented with a wooden inkstand, 
containing one Stump of a pefrahd'h&W awkfer, a road-book and 
directory, a county history minus the cover, and the mortal re- 
mains of a trout in 1 'a WaSStebffirii'The affhoSphtefe wasretlolent 
of tobacco-smoke ; thefffttfes offWftteh -hid icofninunicated'S rather 
dingy 1 free to the ffiffite especially to thd -dusty 


Digitized by google 



OF. TW 1 57 

red cwtai«^w^,slW^^i^q WtfldOffiW pq^r^board ,^ 
variety pC mjsfftllannons^FftjClear WOFC .ihmlffied, .together, wthc 
most ooq5pj<?u»H%,R(f>y,ifii?^i)prfiPftwei!sqFyi .qloftdynfis^wce 
ccuets^ ja C 9 npfr o( i dr^#^, ll t>yp l |pr,,tUree t wJwpft, and 
a^WythWPftWg Of knipatsudforl^andlbe 

qw^rd., Hl Ut |u»t » 4*^ TlVOfT OfJV/ f UoM .nXf fill" ''jI'M'IU >/"' 

, Hpreft we^aWr^WPWft and.Mit, Snodgrasp wane: seated 
on .th^pyeftipg ajtpr th^^pon pfi tm* iwUhsewrai 

other , teipppf^y iprpa^s i9fithft;bSW?e, wplfflpg ( «ididTinl«ng».| 
“ WeU.,>gpq^v’i ^>di atftfth^rtetetWrspRage, pfrabpnfjfqrfiy, 
with pn^y one.eye.^a tfery-hright fciaeto.eyp, which, twnklfd 
wdh : a rpg»i^ i eyprp^i^of|fw^d 1 gppdhuihPur, vq,Qq&fl«bk! 
selves,, gents,., I always prpppa&Jthat, (past,.*), Urn flompanywiaml 
drink.]y^r l y l tp ; roys§lt. ! ^,iMapy^”, .- ,.. .u,.,ii i-m! • t. f > u. 

.‘‘Getalqpg wiUv yon , .wretch,”, said tte handi-maiden, 

phyionsjjf ,not.ill pjeased with the qompfiment, howeve*. - 
,,,V,^pn’t go. a way j Mary, ’’said thebtack-eyed man., 

“ I»et,me alone., imperence,” said the young lady. 
^‘V/Weyeripnnd*” said the one-eyed man , calling after the girl 
afljs^fefttberporo. “I’ll step out by and by, Mary. Keep your 
spirits u® , 1 dpar,”, Hpre he \yent through the not very difficult 
prp<^s,qf minting upon the company will* his solitary. ©ya^ to 
the epthfisiastic deligbtof an elderly personage with a dirty, face 

apd, p day, pipe. . ... . , , 

. ‘,‘,B,i>niiCreeters is women,” said the dirty-faced man, after a 

patlSe.' ; .. „ ,. .. . ... „ . . , •; .. .- 

„ “ Ah I no mistake about that,” said, a very redr>fa<jed man, 
behind a cigar. \ , 

- . .After this little ffit Of philQspphy jther,e was another pauset 
, ‘ ‘ Xhere!§ rummer, things th ap women. in this, world though, 
mini you .said, the map , with the . black eye , slowly filling a 
large .Puteh .pijpe , : With a most capacious howl, 

“ Are.iypu married.? ” inquired .the dirty-fcced warn 
“ Can’t sayd am.” , , ,. u , ,.•> , «... . ., , . 

“1 thought not,” Here the dirty-faced man fell intp ecstacies 
of mirth at his own retort , in which he was joined by a man of 
bland voice andplacid countenance, who always made it a point 
•, to agree with everybody. , . , . 

“ Women after all, gentlemen^” .Said tfie enthusiastic Mr. 
Snodgrass, “are the great, props and comforts of our existence.” 
“ Sothey m” ^aidithO c . 

“ When , they ’rp , in,; a, gppdihmwfVc’ .interposed the dirty- 
faced man. ' . ; T , *rjtt rflliu:n 

And^that’S tMfrmo u » i 

“I repudiate, ithat^nahfif^oPsV ^idiMfi-i Snodgrass,, whose 
thoughts wereifast reverting Ao-EnAiy.Wsridte v “ l repudiate it 


Digitized by 


Google 



158 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

with; disdain -»> with indignation. Show me the man who says 
anything- against women-jas women , and I boldly declare he is 
notihjmafli*’ And Mb' Snodgrass took' his cigar front his mouth, . 
and struck the table violently with his clenched fist. 

“ That’S good sound argument said the placid man. 

** iContaming a position which I deny,” interrupted he of the 
dirty countenance. 

. >“ And (there’s certainly a very great deal of truth in what you 
observe) too, sir,” said the pladd gentleman. ; 

/iff Your health , sit,” said the bagman with the lonely eye, 
beitatting an approving nod oh Mr. Snodgrass. 

(Mn-aSnodgrass acknowledged 'the : compliment. 

‘^always like to hear a good argument,” continued the bag- 
man, “ a sharp one , like this ; it’s very improving ; but this little 
argument -about women brought Jo my mind a story 1 have 
heard an old ancle of mine tell, the recollection of which just 
nawomademe say there were rummer things than women to be 
met with , sometimes, ” 

“ 1 should like to hear that same story,” said the rCd-faced 
man with the cigar. 

“ Should you? ” was the only reply of the bagman, who con- 
tinued to smoke with great vehemence. 

“ So should I,” said Mr. Tupman, speaking for the first time. 
He was always anxious to increase his stock of experience. 

“ Should you? Well then, I’ll tell it. No I won’t. I know 
you won’t believe it,” said the man with the roguish eye, making 
that' organ look more roguish than ever. 

“ If you say it’s true, of course I shall,” said M. Tupman. 

“ Well , upon that understanding I’ll tell it,” replied the tra- * 
veller. “ Did you ever hear of the great commercial house of 
Bilson and Slam? But it doesn’t matter though, whether you 
did or not, because they retired frdm business long since. It’s 
eighty years ago, since the circumstance happened to a traveller 
for that house , but he was a particular friend of my uncle’s : and 
my uncle told the story to me. It’s a queer name ; but he used 
to call it 

THE BAGMAN’S STORY, 

and he used to tell it, something in this way. 

V One winter’s evening, about five o'clock, just as it began 
to grow dusk , a man in a gig might have been seen urging his 
tired horse along the road which leads across Marlborough 
Downs, in the direction of Bristol. I Say he might have been 
seen , and I have no doubt hewould have been, if anybody but 
a blind Man had happened to pass : that way ; but the weather 
was 1 so (bad, and the night 1 so ; cold- atid wety ' -that nothing was 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF T»£ PICKWICK CLUB. 159 

out but tbe water, andraoAhe traveUm? -jogged along in ttoemiddle 
of tbe ready lonesome and dneary, enough, >If any bagman of 
.thaLday could haveeaught sight of tbe little neck-or-nothing 
sort Of gig, with a clay-colouittd bodyand- red wheels, >aud the 
vixenish ill-tempered, fbat-goingi hay ware, that lookedllke a 
cross between a batcher’s horse and a twopenny post-office 
pony, he would have known at once, that this; traveller could 
have been no other than- Tom, Smart, of the groat honee of 
Bilson and Slum , Cateatoo-street ,Gty . However f as there' was 
no bagman to look on , nobody knew.any thing- at all about the 
matter-, and so Tom Smart and his day-coloured gig with the 
red wheels, and the vixenish): muet with the last pace, went on 
together, keeping the secret among them, and nobody was a 
bit .the wiser. 

“There are many pleasanter places even in this dreary world, 
than Marlborough Downs when it blows hard y and if you throw 
in beside- ,- a gloomy winter’s evening , a miry ami sloppy road , 
and apelting fall of heavy rain, and try theeffect, by way of ex- 
periment, in your own proper person , you will experience the 
full force of this observation. • -■ 

The wind blew— not up tbe road or down it, though that’s 
bad enough , but sheer across it , sending the rain slanting down 
like the lines they used to rule in the copybooks at school, to 
make the bays slope well. For a moment it would die away, 
and tbe traveller would begin to delude -himself into the belief 
that , exhausted with its previous fury, it had quietly lain itself 
down to rest, when, whool be would bear it growling and whis- 
tling in the distance, and on it would come rushing over the hill- 
tops, and sweeping along the plain, gathering sound ^nd 
strength as it drew nearer, until it dashed with a heavy gust 
against horse and mad , driving the sharp rain into their ears , 
and! its cold damp breath into their very bones 5 and past them 
it would scour, for, faraway, with a stunning roar, as if in ridi- 
cule of their weakness , and triumphant in the consciousness of 
its own strength and power. 

“The bay mare splashed away, through the mud and water, 
with drooping ears, now and then tossing her head as if to 
express her disgust at this very ungentlemanly behaviour of 
the elements , but keeping a good pace notwithstanding , untila 
gust of wind , more furious than any that had yet assailed them, 
caused- her to stop suddenly, and plant her four feet firmly 
against the ground , to prevent her being blown over. It’s a spe- 
cial merey that she did this, for if she had been blown over, 
the vixenish mare was «e-Jigfet r and- the gig'Was so light, and 
Tom Smart such a light weight- into the bargain, that they must 
infallibly have all* gone rolling ovevand over together, untiMliey 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



160 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

reached the confines of earth , or until the wind fell ; and in either 
case the probability is, that neither the vixenish mare , nor the 
clay-coloured gig with the red wheels, nor Tom Smart, would 
ever have been fit for service again. 

“ ‘ Well , damn my straps and whiskers ,’ says Tom Smart , 
(Tom sometimes had an unpleasant knack of swearing,) ‘ Damn 
my straps and whiskers ,’ says Tom , ‘ if this ain't pleasant, blow 
roe.’ 

“ You’ll very likely ask me , why, as Tom Smart had been 
pretty well blown already, he expressed this wish to be sub- 
mitted to the same process again. I can’t say— all 1 know is, 
that Tom Smart said so — or at least he always told my uncle he 
said so , and it’s just the same thing. 

“ ‘ Blow me,’ says Tom Smart ; and the mare neighed as if she 
were precisely of the same opiniop. 

“ ‘ Cheer up, old girl,’ said Tom, patting the bay mare on the 
neck with the end of his whip. ‘It won’t do pushing on, such 
a night as this; the first house we come to we’ll put up at, so 
the faster you go the sooner it’s over. Soho, old girl— gently 
— gently.’ 

“Whether the vixenish mare was sufficiently well acquainted 
with the tones of Tom’s voice to comprehend his meaning , or 
whether she found it colder standing still than moving on, of 
course I can’tsay. But I can say that Tom had no sooner finished 
speaking , than she pricked up her ears , and started forward at 
a speed which made the day-coloured gig rattle till you would 
have supposed every one of the red spokes was going to fly out 
on the turf of Marlborough Downs ; and even Tom ,,whip as he 
wa%, couldn’t stop or check her pace , until she drew up, other* 
own accord, before a road-side inn on the right-hand side of the 
way, about half a quarter of a mile from the end of the Downs. 

“ Tom cast a hasty glance at the upper part of the house as 
he threw the reins to the hostler, and stuck the wip in the box. 
It was a strange old place , built of a kind of shingle , inlaid , as 
it were , with cross-beams , with gable-topped windows project- 
ing completely over the pathway, and a low door with a dark 
porch , and a couple of steep steps leading down into the house, 
instead of the modern fashion of half a dozen shallow ones, lead- 
ing up to it. It was a comfortable-looking place though , for 
there was a strong cheerful light in the bar-window, which shed 
a bright ray across the road , and even lighted up the hedge on 
the other side ; and there was a red flickering light in the opposite 
window, one moment but faintly discernible, and the next gleam- 
ing strongly through the drawn curtains, which intimated that a 
rousing Ore was blazing within. Marking these little evidences 
with the eye of an experienced traveller, Tom dismounted with 


Digitized 


d by Google 



OF THE PICKWICK - CLUB. 161 

as much agility as fa» haMV&ozan linrbsiWooW permit, and en- 
tered the house- ; < •ill ;-*il ti'*; < i* <!> <■> 

“ In iess than ftve.mindtesfl time* Terai was, ensconced in the 
room opposite the bar — the? venyrooinvrhere hebad imagined 
the lire blazing -^beforea ’substantial matter-of-fact roaribg fire* 
composed of sQmethmgsbQrt.tif«;hushel of coals, amlwood 
enough to raakft.haifaidozen decent gooseberry-bushes , {tiled 
halfway up the chimney, and roaring and crackling with a sound 
that of itself would have warmed? the heart . of any reasonable 
man. This was comfortable; butthis was not all , for w smartly 
dressed girl, with a bright eye and a neat ankle , was 'laying a 
very ciean white doth o» the 1 table ; and as Tom sat with his 
slippered feet on the fender, and his back to the open door; he 
saw a charming prospect of the bar reflected in the glass over 
the chimney-piece, with delightful rows of green bottles and gold 
labels, together with jars of pickles and preserves, and cheeses 
and boiled hams, and rounds of beef, arranged on shelves, in 
the most tempting and delicious array. Well , this was comfort- 
able too ; but even this was not all — for in the bar, seated at 
tea at the nicest possihle little table, drawn close up before the 
brightest possible little fire , was a buxom widow of some- 
where about eight and forty or thereabouts , with a face as com- 
fortable as the bar, who was evidently the landlady of the house,- 
and the supreme ruler over all these agreeable possessions. 
There was only one drawback to the beauty of the whole picture, 
and that was a tall man — a very tall man — in a brown coat 
and bright basket buttons , and black whiskers , and wavy black 
hair, who was seated at tea with the widow, and who it required 
no great penetration to discover was in a fair way of persuading 
her to be a widow no longer, but to confer upon him the pri- 
vilege of sitting down in that bar, for and during the whole re- 
mainder of the term of his natural life. 

“ Tom Smart was by no means of an irritable or envious dis- 
position, but somehow or other the tall man with the browh 
coat and the bright basket buttons did rouse what little gall he 
had in his composition , and did make him feel extremely in- 
dignant , the more especially as he could now and then observe, 
from his seat before the glass , certain little affectionate familiar- 
ities passing between the tall man and the widow, which suffi- 
ciently denoted that the tall man was as high in favour as he was 
in size. Tom was fond of hot punch — I may venture to say he 
was vary fond of botpunoh — and. after he had seen the vixenish 
mare well fed and well littered down , and eaten every hit of the 
nice little, hot dinner- , the widow-tossed up for him with 

her own hands* he j^b^deredm-tunaWer.of it,.by way of 
aypAr imant. Nowif there* wea -oftetfeing in the whole range of 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



162 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

domestic art , which the widow could manufacture better than 
another, it was this identical article ; and the first tumbler was 
adapted to Tom Smart’s taste with such peculiar nicety, that he 
ordered a second with the least possible delay. Hot punch is a 
pleasant thing , gentlemen — an extremely pleasant thing under 
any circumstances — but in that snug old parlour , before the 
roaring fire , with the wind- blowing outside till every timber in 
the old house creaked again, Tom Smart found it perfectly de- 
lightful. He ordered another tumbler, and then another — I am 
not quite certain whether he didn’t order another after that — 
but the more he drank of the hot punch the more he thought of 
the tall man. ^ 

“ ‘ Confound his impudence ,’ said Tom Smart to himself; 
4 what business has he in that snug bar? Such an ugly villain 
too ! ’ said Tom. ‘ If the widow had any taste , she might surely 
pick up some better fellow than that.’ Here Tom’s eye wandered 
from the glass on the chimney-piece , to the glass on the table , 
and as be felt himself becoming gradually sentimental , he emptied 
the fourth tumbler of punch and ordered a fifth. 

“ Tom Smart , gentlemen , had always been very much attach- 
ed to the public line. It had long been his ambition to stand in 
a bar of his own, in a green coat, knee-cords, and tops. He 
had a great notion of taking the chair at convivial dinners , and 
he had often thought how well he could preside in a room of his 
own in the talking way, and what a capital example he could set 
to his customers in the drinking department. All these things 
passed rapidly through Tom’s mind as he sat drinking the hot 
punch by the roaring fire , and he felt very justly and properly 
indignant that the tall man should be in a fair way of keeping 
such an excellent house, while he, Tom Smart, was as far off 
from it as ever. So , after deliberating over the two last tum- 
blers, whether he hadn’t a perfect right to pick a quarrel with the 
tall man for having contrived to get into the good graces of the 
buxom widow, Tom Smart at last arrived at the satisfactory con- 
clusion that he was a very ill-used and persecuted individual , 
and had better go to bed. 

“ Up a wide and ancient staircase the smart girl preceded 
Tom , shading the chamber candle with her hand , to protect it 
from the currents of air which in such a rambling old place might 
have found plenty of room to disport themselves in, without 
blowing the candle out, but which did blow it out neverthe- 
less; thus affording Tom’s enemies an opportunity of asserting 
that it was he , and not the wind , who extinguished the candle , 
and that while he pretended to be blowing it a-light again , he 
was in fact kissing the girl. Be this as it may, another light was 
obtained , and Tom was conducted through a maze of rooms . 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 163 

«nd a labyrinth of passages , to the apartment which had been 
prepared for his reception , where the girl bid him good night , 
and left him alone. ’ 

“ It was a good large room with big closets , and a bed which 
might have served for a whole boarding-school, to say nothing 
of a couple of oaken presses that would have held the baggage 
of a small army; but what struck Tom’s fancy most, was a 
strange, grim-looking , high-backed chair, carved in the most 
fantastic manner, with a flowered damask cushion, and the 
round knobs at the bottom of the legs carefiilly tied up in red 
cloth, as if it had got the gout in its toes. Of any other queer 
chair, Tom would only have thought it was a queer chair, and 
there would have been an end of the matter; but there was 
something about this particular chair, and yet he couldn’t tell 
what it was , so odd and so unlike any other piece of furniture 
he had ever seen , that it seemed to fascinate him. He sat down 
before the fire , and stared at the old chair for half an hour ; — 
Damn the chair, it was such a strange old thing, he couldn’t 
take his eyes off it. 

“ ‘ Well ,’ said Tom , slowly undressing himself, and staring 
at the old chair all the while, which stood with a mysterious 
aspect by the bedside, * I never saw such a rum concern as that 
in my days. Very odd,’ said Tom, who had got rather sage 
with the hot punch , ‘ very odd.’ Tom shook his head with an 
air of profound wisdom, and looked at the chair again. He 
couldn’t make anything of it though , so he got into bed , covered 
himself up warm , and fell asleep. 

“ In about half an hour, Tom woke up with a start , from a 
confused dream of tall men and tumblers of punch : and the first 
object that presented itself to his waking imagination was the 
queer chair. 

“ ‘ I won’t look at it any more,’ said Tom to himself, and he 
squeezed his eyelids together, and tried to persuade himself he 
was going to sleep again. No use; nothing but queer chairs 
danced before his eyes , kicking up their legs , jumping over each 
other’s backs, and playing all kinds of antics. 

“ ‘ I may as well see one real chair, as two or three complete 
sets of false ones ,’ said Tom , bringing out his head from under 
the bed-clothes. There it was , plainly discernible by the light of 
the fire , looking as provoking as ever. 

“ Tom gazed at the chair ; and , suddenly as he looked at it , a 
most extraordinary change seemed to eome over it. The carving 
of the back gradually assumed the lineaments and expression of 
an old , shrivelled human face ; the damask cushion became an 
antique , flapped waistcoat ; the round knobs grew into a couple 
of feet , encased in red doth slippers , and the whole chair look- 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



164 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

ed like a very ugly old man , of the previous century, with his 
arms a-kimbo. Tom sat up in bed , and rubbed his eyes to dispel 
the illusion. No. The chair was an ugly old gentleman 5 and 
what was more , he was winking at Tom Smart. 

“ Tom was naturally a headlong , careless sort of dog, and he 
had had five tumblers of hot punch into the bargain ; so , although 
he was a little startled at first, he began to grow rather indignant 
when he saw the old gentleman winking and leering at him 
with such an impudent air. At length he resolved that he wouldn't 
stand it ; and as the old face still kept winking away as fast as 
ever, Tom said, in a very angry tone — 

‘.‘ ‘ What the devil are you winking at me for? ’ 

“ ‘ Because I like it , Tom Smart ,’ said the chair •, or the old 
gentleman, whichever you like to call him. He stopped winking 
though, when Tom spoke, and began grinning like a superan- 
nuated monkey. 

“ ‘ How do you know my name, old nut-cracker face?’ in- 
quired Tom Smart, rather staggered ; — though he pretended to 
carry it off so well. 

“ ‘ Come , come, Tom,’ said the old gentleman, ‘ that's not the 
way to address solid Spanish Mahogany. Dam’me', you couldn’t 
treat me with less respect if I was veneered.’ When the old 
gentleman said this , he looked so fierce that Tom began to grow 
frightened. 

“ ‘ I didn’t mean to treat you with any disrespect, sir,’ said 
Tom , in a much humbler tone than he had spoken in at first. 

“ * Well , well ,” said the old fellow, ‘ perhaps not — perhaps 
not. Tom — ’ 

“ ‘ Sir — ’ 

‘“I know everything about you, Tom; everything. You’re 
very poor, Tom.’ 

‘“I certainly am,’ said Tom Smart. ‘But how came you to 
know that?’ 

“ ‘ Never mind that ,’ said the old gentleman ; * you’re much 
too fond of punch , Tom.’ 

“ Tom Smart was just on the point of protesting that he hadn’t 
tasted a drop since his last birth-day ; but when his eye encoun- 
tered that of the old gentleman, he looked so knowing that Tom 
blushed, and was silent. 

“ ‘ Tom,’ said the old gentleman , ‘ the widow’s a fine Woman 
— remarkably fine woman — eh, Tom?’ Here the old fellow 
screwed up his eyes, cocked up one of his wasted little Ibgs, and 
looked altogether so unpleasantly amorous , that Tom was quite 
disgusted with the levity of his behaviour ;-^iat 'his time of 
life, too! • ■ *• * - < • •'< •' ->• 

‘“lam her guardian, Tom,’ said the old gentleman. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



165 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 

“ ‘ Are you? ’ inquired Tom Smart. 

‘“I knew her mother, Tom said the old fellow ; ‘and her 
grand-mother- She was very fond of me — made me this waist- 
coat, Tom.” 

“ ‘ Did she? ’ said Tom Smart. , • 

“ ‘ And these shoes,’ said the old fellow, lifting up one of the 
red-cloth muiSers ; ‘ but don’t mention it, Tom. I shouldn’t like 
to have it known that she was So much attached to me. It might 
occasion some unpleasantness in the family.’ When the old ras- 
cal said this , he looked, so extremely impertinent , that , as Tom 
Smart afterwards declared, he could have sat upon him without 
remorse. 

“ * I have been a great favourite among the women in my time, 
Tom,’ said the profligate old debauchee; ‘ hundreds of fine women 
have sat in my lap for hours together. What do you think of 
that, you dog , eh ? ’ The old gentleman was proceeding to re- 
count some other exploits of his youth, when he was seized with 
such a violent fit of creaking that he was unable to proceed. 

“ ‘ Just serves you right, old boy,’ thought Tom Smart; but he 
didn’t say .anything. 

“ ‘ Ah ! ’ said the old fellow, ‘ I am a good deal troubled with 
this now. I am getting old , Tom , and have lost nearly all my 
rails, I have had an operation performed, too — a small piece let 
into my back— and I found it a severe trial, Tom.’ 

“ ‘ I dare say you did, sir,’ said Tom Smart. 

“ ‘ However,’ said the old gentleman , ‘ that’s not the point. 
Tom, I want you to marry the widow.’ 

“ ‘ Me , sir ! ’ said Tom. 

“ ‘ You,’ said the old gentleman. 

“ ‘ Bless your reverend locks,’ said Tom — (he had a few scat- 
tered horse-hairs left) — “‘bless your reverend locks , she 
wouldn’t have me.’ And Tom sighed involuntarily, as he thought 
of the bar. 

“ ‘ Wouldn’t she? ’ said the old gentleman , firmly 

“ ‘ No , no ,’ said Tom ; ‘ there’s somebody else in the wind. 
A tall man — a confoundedly tall man — with black whiskers. ’ 

“ ‘ Tom,’ said the old gentleman ; ‘ she will never have him.’ 

“ ‘Won’t she! ’.said Tom. ‘If you stood in the bar, old gentle- 
man, you’d tell another story.’ 

“ ‘Pooh , pooh ,’ said the old gentleman. ‘ I know all about 
that.’ 

“ ‘ About what? ’ said Tom. 

“ ‘The kissing behind the door; and all that sort, of thing , 
Tom,’ said the old gentleman , and here he gave another impu- 
dent look , which made Tom very wroth , because as you all 
know, gentlemen , to hear an old fellow, who ought to know 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



166 PO9TH0MOUS PAPERS 

better, talking about these things, is very unpleasant— nothing 

more so. 

“ ‘ I know all about that , Tom ,’ said the old gentleman. ‘ I 
have seen it done very often in my time, Tom , between more 
people than I should like tounention to you; but it never came to 
anything after all.’ 

“ ‘ You must have seen some queer things ,’ said Tom , with 
an inquisitive look. 

‘“You may say that, Tom,’ replied the old Mow, with a 
very complicated wink. ‘ I am the last of my family, Tom ,' said 
(he old gentleman , with a melancholy sigh. 

“ ‘ Was it a large one ? ’ inquired Tom Smart. 

“ ‘ There were twelve of us , Tom said the old gentleman ; 
fine straight-backed , handsome fellows as you’d wish to see. 
None of your modern abortions — all with arms , and with a de- 
gree of polish , though I say it that should not, which it would 
have done your heart good to behold.’ 

“ ‘ And what’s become of the others, sir?’ asked Tom Smart. 

“ The old gentleman applied his elbow to his eye as he replied , 
‘Gone, Tom, gone. We had hard service, Tom, and they 
hadn’t all my constitution. They got rheumatic about the legs 
and arms , and went into kitchens and other hospitals ; and one 
ofem, with long service and hard usage, positively lost his 
senses: — he got so crazy that he was obliged to be burnt. 
Shocking thing that , Tom.’ 

“ ‘ Dreadful!’ said Tom Smart. 

“ The old fellow paused for a few minutes , apparently strug- 
gling with his feelings of emotion, and then said, 

“ ‘ However, Tom , I am wandering from the point. This tall 
man , Tom , is a rascally adventurer. The moment he married 
the widow, he would sell off all the furniture, and run' away. 
What would be the consequence? She would be deserted and 
reduced to ruin , and I should catch my death of cold in some 
broker’s shop.’ 

“‘Yes, but—’ 

“‘Don’t interrupt me,’ said the old gentleman. ‘Of you, 
Tom, I entertain a very different opinion ; for I well know that 
if you once settled yourself in a public house , you would never 
leave it, as long as there was anything to drink within its wails.’ 

‘“I am very much obliged to you for your good opinion , 
•Ssir,’ said Tom Smart. 

“ ‘Therefore,’ resumed the old gentleman, in a dictatorial 
tone , ‘ you shall have her, and he shall not. ’ 

“ ‘ What is to prevent it?’ said Tom Smart , eagerly. 

“ ‘ This disclosure ,’ replied the old gentleman : ‘ he is already 
married. ’ 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 167 

“ ‘ How can I prove it? ’ said Tom, starting half out of bed. 

“ ‘ The old gentleman untucked bis arm from his side, and 
having pointed to one of the oaken presses , immediately replaced 
it in its old position. 

“ * He little thinks,’ said the aid gentleman, ‘ that in the right- 
hand pocket of a pair of trousers in that press , he has left a letter, 
entreating him to return to his disconsolate wife, with sis — 
mark me, Tom — six babes , and ail of them small ones.’ 

“ As the old gentleman solemnly uttered these words, his 
features grew less and less distinct , and bis figure more shadowy. 
A film came .over Tom Smart’s eyes. The old man seemed 
gradually blending into the chair, the damask waistcoat to resolve 
into a cushion, the red slippers to shrink into little red-cloth 
bags. The light faded gently away, and Tom Smart fell back on 
his pillow, and dropped asleep. 

“ Morning roused Tom from the lethargic slumber, into which 
he had fallen on the disappearance of the old man. He sat up in 
bed, and for some minutes vainly endeavoured to recal the events 
of the preoeding night. Suddenly they rushed upon him. He 
looked at the chair, it was a fantastic and grim-looking piece of 
fiumiture, certainly, but. it must have been a remarkably in- 
genious and lively imagination , that could have discovered any 
resemblance between it and an old man. 

“ 4 How are you , old boy?’ said Tom. He was bolder in the 
daylight — most men are. 

“ The chair remained motionless , and spoke not a word. 

“ ‘ Miserable morning ,’ said Tom. No. The chair would not 
be drawn into conversation. 

“ ‘ Which press did you point to? — you can tell me that,’ said 
Tom. Devil a word , gentlemen , the chair would say. 

“ ‘ It’s not much trouble to open it , any bow,’ said Tom , get- 
ting out of bed very deliberately. He walked up to one of the 
presses. The key was in the lock ; he turned it , and opened the 
door. There was a pair of trousers there. He put bis hand into 
the pocket, and drew forth the identical letter the old gentleman 
had described ! 

“ ‘ Queer sort of thing , this ,’ said Tom Smart; ‘looking first 
at the chair and then at the press, and then at the letter, and 
then at the chair again. ‘ Very queer,’ said Tom. But as there 
was nothing in either to lessen the queerness , he thought he 
might as well dress himself, and settle the tall man’s business af 
once just to put him out of his misery. 

“Tom surveyed theirooms he passed through, on bis way down 
stairs with the scrutinising ' eye of a landlord; thinking it not 
impossible, that before long, they and their contents would be 
his property. The tall, man was standing in the snug little bar, 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



168 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

with his hands behind him , quite at home. He grinned vacantly 
at Tom. A casual observer might have supposed he did it , only 
to show his white teeth ; but Tom Smart thought that a con- 
sciousness of triumph was passing through the place where the 
tall man’s mind would have been, if he had had any. Tom 
laughed in his face ; and summoned the landlady. 

“ ‘ Good morning , ma’am ,’ said Tom Smart , closing the 
door of the little parlour as the widow entered. 

“ ‘ Good morning , sir,’ said the widow. ‘ What will you take 
for breakfast, sir?’ 

“ Tom was thinking how he should open the case , so he made 
no answer. 

“ ‘ There’s a very nice ham ,’ said the widow, ‘and a beau- 
tiful cold larded fowl. Shall I send ’em in , sir ? ’ 

“ These words roused Tom from his reflections. His admi- 
ration of the widow increased as she spoke. Thoughtful creature ! 
C omfbrtable provider ! ” 

“ ‘ Who is that gentleman in the bar, ma’am? ’ inquired Tom. 

“ ‘ His name is Jinkins , sir,’ said the widow, slightly blushing. 

“ * He’s a tall man ,’ said Tom. 

“ ‘ He is a very fine man , sir,’ replied the widow, ‘ and a very 
nice gentleman.’ 

“ ‘ Ah ! ’ said Tom. 

“‘Is there anything more you want, sir?’ inquired the 
widow, rather puzzled by Tom’s manner. 

“ ‘ Why, yes,’ said Tom. ‘ My dear ma’am, will you have the 
kindness to sit down for one moment?’ 

“The widow looked much amazed, but she sat down, and 
Tom sat down too , close beside her. I don’t know how it hap- 
pened , gentlemen — indeed my uncle used to tell me that Tom 
Smart said he didn’t know how it happened either — but some- 
how or other the palm of Tom’s hand fell upon the back of the 
widow’s hand , and remained there while he spoke. 

“ ‘ My dear ma'am,’ said Tom Smart — he had always a great 
notion of committing the amiable — “ My dear ma’am, you de- 
serve a very excellent husband 5 — you do indeed.’ 

“ ‘ Lor, sir ! ’ said the.widow — as well she might 5 Tom’s mode 
of commencing the conversation being rather unusual , not to 
say startling, the fact of his never having set eyes upon her 'before 
the previous night ,- being taken into consideration. ‘ Lor, sir ! ’ 

“ ‘ I scorn to flatter, my dear ma’am ,’ said Tom Smart. ‘ You 
deserve a very admirable husband, and whoever he is , he’ll be a 
very lucky man.’ As Tom said this , his eye involuntarily wan- 
dered from the widow’s face to the comforts around him. 

“ The widow looked jnore puzzled than ever, and made an 
effort to rise. Tom gently pressed her hand , as if to detain her. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 169 

and she kept her seat. Widows , gentlemen , are not usually 
timorous, as my uncle used to say. 

‘“Iam sure I am very much obliged to you , sir , for your 
good opinion ,’ said the buxom landlady, half laughing ; ‘ and if 
ever I marry again ’ — • 

“ ‘ Iff said Tom Smart, 1 looking very shrewdly put at the 
right-hand corner of his left eye. ‘ If’ — 

“ ‘ Well,’ said the widow, laughing outright this time.“ When 
I do, I hope I shall have as good a husband as you describe.’ 

“ ‘ Jinkins to wit ,’ said Tom. 

“ ‘ Lor, sir! ’ exclaimed the widow. , 

“ ‘ Oh , don’t tell me ,’ said Tom , ‘ I know him.’ 

“ ‘ I am sure nobody who knows him , knows anything bad 
of him,’ said the widow, bridling up at the mysterious air with 
which Tom had spoken. 

“ ‘ Hem ,’ said Tom Smart. 

“ The widow began to think it was high time to cry, so she 
took out her handkerchief, and inquired whether Tom wished to 
insult her, whether he thought it like a gentleman to take away 
the character of another gentleman behind his back, why, if he 
bad got anything to say, hq didn’t say it to the man, like a man, 
instead of terrifying a poor weak woman in that way ; and so forth. 

“ * I’ll say it to him fast enough,’ said Tom, ‘ only I want you 
to hear it first.’ 

“ ‘ What is it ? ’ inquired the widow, looking intently in Tom’s 
countenance. 

“ ‘ I’ll astonish you,’ said Tom, putting his hand in bis pocket. 

“ ‘ If it is , that he wants money,’ said the widow, ‘ I know 
that already, and you needn’t trouble yourself.’ 

“ ‘ Pooh, nonsense, that’s nothing,’ said Tom Smart , , ‘/want 
money. ’Tan’t that.’ . 

“ ‘ Oh dear, what can it be ? ’ exclaimed the poor widow. 

“ ‘ Don’t be frightened ,’ said Tom Smart. He slowly drew 
forth the letter, and unfolded it. * You won’t scream?’ said Tom, 
doubtfully. 

“ ‘ No, no,’ replied the widow ; ‘ let me see it.’ 

“‘You won’t go fainting away, or any of that nonsense?’ 
said Tom. 

“ ‘ No, no, ’..returned the widow, hastily. 

“ ‘ And don’t run out , and blow him up ,’ said Tom, ‘ because 
I'll do all that for you 5 you had better not exert yourself.’ 

“ ‘ Well, well,’ said the widow, ‘ let me see it.’ 

“‘I will,’ replied Tom Smart; and, with these words, he 
placed the letter in the widow’s hand. 

“ Gentlemen , I have heard my uncle say, that Tom Smart 
said ? the vyidow’s lamentations when she heard the disclosure 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



170 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

would have pierced a heart of stone. Tom was certainly very 
tender-hearted, but they pierced his, to the very core. The 
widow rocked herself to and fro, and wrung her hands. 

“ ‘ Oh , the deception and villany of the man ! ’ said the widow. 

“ ‘ Frightful , my dear ma’am •, but compose yourself,’ said 
Tom Smart. 

“ ‘ Oh, I can’t compose myself,’ shrieked the widow. ‘ I shall 
never find any one else I can love so much ! ’ 

“ * Oh yes you will, my dear soul ,’ said Tom Smart , letting 
fall a shower of the largest-sized tears, in pity for the widow’s 
misfortunes. Tom Smart, in the energy of his compassion, had 
put his arm round the widow’s waist ; and the widow, in a passion 
of grief, had clasped Tom’s hand. She looked up in Tom’s face, 
and smiled through her tears. Tom looked down in her’s , and 
smiled through his. 

“ I never could find out, gentlemen, whether Tom did or did 
not kiss the widow at that particular moment. He used to tell 
my uncle he didn’t, but I have my doubts about it. Between 
ourselves , gentlemen , I rather think he did. 

“ At all events, Tom kicked the very tall man out at the front 
door half an hour after , and married the widow a month after. 
And he used to drive about the country, with the clay-coloured 
gig with the red wheels, and the vixenish mare with the fast pace, 
till he gave up business many years afterwards , and went to 
France with his wife 5 and then the old house was pulled down.” 


“ Will you allow me to ask you,’’ said the inquisitive old 
gentleman , “ what became of the chair?” 

“ Why,” replied the one-eyed bagman, “ H was observed to 
creak very- much on the day of the wedding •, but Tom Smart 
couldn’t say for certain, whether it was with pleasure or bodily 
infirmity. He rather thought it was the latter, though , for it 
never spoke afterwards.” 

“ Everybody believed the story, didn’t they ? ” said the dirty- 
faced man, re-filling his pipe. 

“ Except Tom’s enemies,” replied the bagman. “ Some of 
’em said Tom invented it altogether ; and other; said he was 
drunk, and fancied it, and 'got hoW of the wrongtrousers by 
mistake before he went -to bed. 'nobody eybr minded' What 
they said.” 

“ Tom Smart said it vws aHtono?? ,i > ; ■ * 

“Every word.”' ' ‘ 

“ And your uncle?” * •.(•>/>. 

“ Every letter.” 


Digitized by Google 
- iJ- •• 


r 


k 



OF THB PICKWICK CLUB. 171 

“ They must have been nice men, both of ’em;” said the dirty- 
faced man. 

“Yes, they were,” replied the bagman; “ very nice men 
indeed ! ” 


CHAPTER XVI. 

in which 18 emn a faithful fohtiaituh of two dmtinguibheb persons ; and 

AN ACCURATE DESCRIPTION OF A PUBLIC RRRAEFAST IN THBB HOUSE AND GROUNDS : 
WHICH PUBLIC BEEAKFA8T LMDS TO THB EECO6N1TI0N OF AH OLD ACQUAINTANCE ; 
AND THE COMMENCEMENT OF ANOTHER CHAPTEB. 

• / 

Mr. Pickwick’s conscience had been somewhat reproaching 
him , for his recent neglect of his friends at the Peacock ; and he 
was just on the point of walking forth in quest of them , on the 
third morning after the election had terminated , when his faith- 
ful valet put into his hand a card , on whieh was engraved the 
following inscription. 


MRS. LEO HUNTER. 

The Den. Ealanswill. 

“ Person’s a waitin’,” said Sam , epigrammatically. 

“ Does the person want me, Sam?” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“ He wants you partickler ; and no one else’ll do, as the Devil’s 
private secretary said , ven he fetched avay Doctor Faustus,” re- 
plied Mr. Weller. 

“ Be. Is it a gentleman ? ” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ A wery good imitation o’ one, ifit an’t ,” replied Mr. Weller. 

“ But this is a lady’s card ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Given roe by a gen’lm’n , hows-’ever,” replied S^m , “ and 
he’s a waitin’ in the drawing-room — said he’d rather wait all 
day, than not see you.” 

Mr. Pickwick, on hearing this determination, descended to the 
drawing-room , where sat a grave man , who started up on his 
entrance , and said , with an air of profound respect — 

“ Mr. Pickwick , I presume ? ” 

“ The same.” 

“ Allow me, sir, the honour of grasping your hand— permit 
me, sir, to shake it,” said tbegrave man. 

“ Certainly,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

The stranger shook the extended hand , and then continued. 

“ We have heard of your fame , sir. The noise of your anti- 
quarian discussion has reached the ears bf Mrs. Leo Hunter — 
my wife , sir : /am Mr. Leo Hunter” — the stranger paused , as 


Digitized by 


Google 



POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


172 

if he expected that Mr. Pickwick would be overcome by the dis- 
closure ; but seeing that he remained perfectly calm , proceeded. 

“My wife, sir— Mrs. Leo Hunter — is proud to number 
among her acquaintance, all those who have rendered them- 
selves celebrated by their works and talents. Permit me , sir, to 
place in a conspicuous part of the list , the name of Mr. Pick- 
wick, and his brother members of the club that derives its name 
' from him.” 

“ I shall be extremely happy to make the acquaintance of such 
a lady, sir,” replied Mr. Pickwick. 

“ You shall make it , sir,” said the grave man. “ To-morrow 
morning , sir, we give a public breakfast — a f&te champ6tre — 
to a great number of those who have rendered themselves cele- 
brated by their works and talents. Permit Mrs. Leo Hunter, sir, 
to have the gratiGcation of seeing you at the Den.” 

“ With great pleasure ,” replied Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Mrs. Leo Hunter has many of these breakfasts , sir,” re- 
sumed the new acquaintance — “ ‘ Feasts of reason, sir, and flow’s 
of soul ,’ as somebody who wrote a sonnet to Mrs. Leo Hunter 
on her breakfasts , feelingly and originally observed.” 

“Was he celebratedrfbr his W’orks, and talents?” inquired 
Mr. Pickwick. . , v . 

“ He was, sir,” replied the grave man ; “ all Mrs. Leo Hunter’s 
acquaintance are ; it is her ambition , sir, to have no other acquain- 
tance.” 

“ It is a very noble ambition ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ When I inform Mrs. Leo Hunter, that that remark fell from 
your lips , sir, she will indeed be proud ,” said the grave man. 
“ You have a gentleman in your train , who has produced some 
bpai^ul little poems, 1 think ,^ir.” 

jH-y flrimd Mr. Snodgrass has a great taste for poetry,” re- 
'pimPVlrJKurick. . v 

“ So ifaf^Irs. Leo Hurit«j$sir. She dotes on poetry, sir. She 
.^dores it ; I pray s^y th aU^gr wnolesoul and mind are wound up, 
entwined with iL ; '.S1pffcs produced some delightful pieces, 
herself , sir. You may havefpplHjMth her ‘ Ode to an expiring 

-Frog,’ sir.” 

“ I don’t think I have ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

^ “ You astonish me, sir,” said Mr. Leo Hunter. “ Itcreatedan 

immense sensation. It was signed with an ‘ L’ and eight staff, 
* antfappeared originally in a Lady’s Magazine. It commenced 

.. “ Can I view the e parting, lying 

On thy stomach , without sighing ; 

Can I unmoved see thee dying 

On a log , 

Expiring frog ! ” 



Digitized by 


Google 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 


173 


“ Beautiful ! ” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Fine saidMr. Leo Hunter, “ so simple ! ” 

“ Very,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ The next verse is still more touching. Shall I repeat it? ” 

“ If you please ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ It runs thus,” said the grave man , still more gravely. 

“ Say, have fiends in shape of boys , 

With wild halloo , and brutal noise , 

Hunted thee from marshy joys , 

With a dog, 

Expiring frog ! ,r 

“ Finely expressed ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ AH point , sir, all point ,” said Mr. Leo Hunter ; “ but you 
shall hear Mrs. Leo Hunter repeat it. She can do justice to it , 
sir. She will repeat it, in character, sir, to-morrow morning.” 

“ In character ! ” 

“ As Minerva. But I forgot — it’s a fancy dress dejeune.” 

“ Dear me ,” said Mr. Pickwick, glancing at his own figure — 

“ I can’t possibly” — 

“ Can’t, sir ; can’t ! ” exclaimed Mr. Leo Hunter. “ Solomon 
Lucas the Jew in the High Street, has thousands of fancy dresses. 
Consider, sir, hoW'many appropriate characters are open for 
your selection. Plato, Zeno, Epicurus, Pythagoras — all foun- 
ders of clubs.” 

“ I know that,” said Mr. Pickwick , “ but as I cannot put my- 
self in competition with those great' men , I cannot presume to 
wear their dresses.” 

The grave man considered deeply, for a few seconds, and 
then said, 

“ On reflection, sir, I don’t know whether it whuldnot afford - 
Mrs. Leo Hunter greater pleasure , ifchar guests Sato arggntlSman 
of your celebrky in his own costume , rather than in an assumed 
one’. I may venture to promise an e^gption in your case , sir — 
yes, I am quite certain that on behalf of 'Mrs. Leo Hunter, I may* 
venture to do so.” * 

“ In that case,” said Mr. Pickwick, “ I shall have great^ 
pleasure in coming.” ^ 

, “ But I waste your time , sir,” said the grave man ,*s’if Sud- 1 
denly recoUecting himself. ' “ I know its^valUe , sir. 1^ wiAMk* 
detain you. I may teliMfs. Leo ’Hunter, that she may ron- 

fidently expect you and your distinguished friends? Good morn- 
ing, sir, I am proud lO’haye t h’eb^ld ’Sq 'eminent a personage — 
not a step , sir 5 not a word*?. witlwut gwing Mr. Pickwick 
time to offer remonstrance- or denial, Mr. Leo Hunter stalked 
gravely away. 



Digitized by 


Google 



174 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

Mr. Pickwick took up his hat , and repaired to the Peacock ; 
but Mr. Winkle had conveyed the intelligence of the fancy ball 
there , before him. 

“ Mrs. Pott’s going ,” were the first words with which he sa- 
luted his leader. 

“ils she?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ As Apollo,” replied Mr. Winkle. “ Only Pott objects to the 
tunic.” x 

“ He is right. He is quite right ,” said Mr. Pickwick empha- 
tically. - 

“ Yes -so she’s going to wear a white satin gown with gold 
spangles.” 

“ They’ll hardly know what she’s meant for •, will they?” in- 
quired Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ Of course they will ,” replied Mr. Winkle indignantly. 
“ They’ll see her lyre , won’t they ? ” 

“ True ; I forgot that said Mr. Snodgrass. 

“ I shall go as a Bandit interposed Mr. Tupman. 

“ What! ” said Mr. Pickwick , with a sudden start. 

“ As a bandit ,” repeated Mr. Tupman , mildly. 

■ “ You don’t mean to say,” said Mr. Pickwick , gazing with 
, solemn sternness at his friend, “ you don’t mean to say, Mr. Tup- 
man , that it is your intention to put yourself into a green velvet 
jacket , with a two-inch tail ? ” 

“ Such is my intention , sir,” replied Mr. Tupman warmly. 
“ And why not, sir?” 

“ Because, sir,” said Mr. Pickwick , considerably excited — 
“ because you are too old, sir.” 

“ Too old ! ” exclaimed Mr. Tupman. 

“And if any further grotnfd of objection be wanting ,” con- 
tinued Mr. Pickwick, “ you are too fat, sir.” 

“ Sir,” said Mr. Tupman, his face suffused with a crimson 
glow, “ this is an insult.” 

“ Sir,” replied Mr. Pickwick m the same tone , “ it is not 
half the insult to you , that your appearance in my presence in 
a green velvet jacket , with a two-inch tail , would be to me.” 

“ Sir,” said Mr. Tupman , “ you’re a fellow.” 

“ Sir,” said Mr. Pickwick, “ you’re another! ” 

Mr. Tupman advanced a step or two , and glared at Mr. Pick- 
wick .Mr. Pickwick returned the glare, concentrated into a focus 
by means of his spectacles , and breathed a bold defiance. Mr. 
Snodgrass and Mr. Winkle looked on , petrified at beholding 
such a scene between two such men. 

“ Sir,” said Mr. Tupman, after a short pause, speaking in a 
low, deep voice , “ you have called me old.” 

“ 1 have ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 


Digitized by 


Google 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 


175 


“ And fat.” 

“ I reiterate the charge.” 

“ And a fellow.” 

“ So you are ! ” 

There was a fearftil pause. 

“ My attachment to youy person', sir,” said Mr. Tupman , 
speaking in a voice tremulous with emotion , and tucking up his 
wristbands meanwhile, “ is great— very great — but upon that 
person , I must take summary vengeance.” 

“ Come on, sir,” replied Mr. Pickwick. Stimulated by the 
exciting nature of the dialogue, the heroic man actually threw 
himself into a paralytic attitude, confidently supposed by the two 
by-standers to have been intended as a posture of defence. 

“ What!” exclaimed Mr. Snodgrass, suddenly recovering 
the power of speech , of which intense astonishment had pre- 
viously bereft him , and rushing between the two , at the immi- 
nent hazard of receiving an application on the temple from each. 

“ What! Mr. Pickwick , with- the eyes of the world upon you! 
Mr. Tupman ! who , in common with us all , derives a lustre from 
his undying name ! I; or shame , gentlemen ; for shame.” 

The unwonted lines which -momentary passion had ruled it)* 
Mr. Pickwick’s clear and open bro^L gradually melted away, as 
his young friend spoke , like the jnarks of a black-lead pencil 
beneath the softening influence of India rubber. His countenance 
had resumed its usual benign expression ere he concluded. 

“ I have been hasty,” said Mr. Pickwick, “very hasty. 
Tupman , your hand.” 

The dark shadow passed from Mr. Tupman’^ face, as he 
warmly grasped the hand of his friend. 

“ I have been hasty, too ,” said he. 

“ No, no,” interrupted Mr. Pickwick; “ the fault was mine. 
You will wear the green velvet jacket?” 

“ No , no ,” replied Mr. Tupman. 

“ To oblige me, you will,” resumed Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Well , well , I will,” said Mr. Tupman. 

It was accordingly settled that Mr. Tupman , Mr. Winkle, and 
Mr. Snodgrass , should all wear fancy dresses. Thus Mr. Pick- 
wick was led by the very warmth of his ovn good feelings to give 
bis consent to a proceeding from which his better j udgment would 
have recoiled — a more striking illustration of his amiable cha- 
racter could hardly have been conceived , even if the events re- 
corded in these pages had been wholly imaginary. 

Mr. Leo Hunter had not exaggerated the resources of Mr. So- 
lomon Lucas. His wardrobe was extensive — very extensive — 
not strictly classical perhaps , nor quite new, nor did it contain 
any one garment made precisely after the fashion of any age or 


Digitized by 


Google 



176 # POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

time , but every thing was more or less spangled'; and what cart 
be prettier than spangles? It may be objected that they are not 
adapted to the daylight, but everybody knows that they would 
glitter if there were lamps ; and nothing can be clearer than that 
if people give fancy balls in the day-time , and the dresses do not 
show quite as well as they would by night, the fault lies solely 
with the people who give the fancy balls, and is in no wise 
chargeable on the spangles. Such was the convincing reasoning 
of Mr. Solomon Lucas; and influenced by such arguments did 
Mr. Tupman , Mr. Winkle, and Mr. Snodgrass, engage to array 
themselves in costumes which his taste and experience induced 
him to recommend as admirably suited to the occasion. 

A carriage was hired fronrffie Town Arms, for the accommo- 
dation of the PickwickiA^s , and a chariot was ordered f*om the 
same repository, for the puifrcree-qf conveying Mr. and Mrs. Pott 
to Mrs. Leo Hunter’s grounds, which Mr. Pott, as a delicate 
acknowledgment^ having received an invitation, had already 
confidently Are^feted in the EabmswdlXiazette “ would present 
a scene of varied and delifcipus e^fljkfement — a bewildering 
coru^fcation of beauty and talent-r-/^ Ja\%h and prodigal display 
^hospitality — above all, a degre^of splendour softened by the 
most, exquisite taste; and adornmero^refined with perfect har- 
mony and the chastest goffl-keeping-^ compared with which , 
the fabled gorgeousness of jfcastern Fairy Land itself * would 
appear to be clothed in as many dark and murky colours , as 
must be the mind of the splenetic and unmanly being who could 
presume to taint with the venom of his envy, the preparations 
making by tjie virtuous and highly distinguished lady, at whose 
shrine this humble tribute of admiration wSfcoffeged.” This last 
was a piece orbiting sarcasm against the fadejrclident, who in 
consequence w riot having been invited at had been through 
four numbers affecting to sneer at the whole affair, in,his very 
largest type, with all the adjectives in capital letters, 

<The morning came ; it was a pleasant sight to behold Mr. Tup- 
man in full Brigand’s costume , With a very tight jacket , sitting 
like a pincushion over his back and shoulders ; the upper portion 
of his legs encased in the velvet shorts, and the lower part 
thereof swathed in the complicated bandages to which all Bri- 
gands are peculiarly attached. It was plejfing to see his open 
and ingenious countenance, well mttifl^hioed and corked , 
looking out from an open shirt collar; and to^ contemplate^the 
sugar-loaf hat, decorated with ribbons of all ^colours, which he 
was compelled to carry on his knee , inasmuch as no Itnown 
conveyance with a top to it, would admit of any man’s carrying 
it between his head and the roof. Equally humorous and agree- 
able , was the appearance of Mr. Snodgrass in blue satin trunks 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 177 

and cloak, white silk tights and shoes, and Grecian helmet, 
which everybody knows (and if they do not , Mr. Solomon Lu- 
cas did) to have been the regular, authentic , every-day costume 
of a Troubadour, from the earliest ages down to the time of 
their final disappearance from the face of the earth. All this 
was pleasant, but this was as nothing compared with the shouting 
of the populace when the carriage drew up, behind Mr. Pott’s 
chariot, which chariot itself drew up at Mr. Pott’s door, which 
door itself opened , and displayed the great Pott accoutred as a 
Russian officer of justice, with a tremendous knout in hisfiand 
—tastefully typical of the stern and mighty power of the Eatans- 
will Gazette, and the fearfUl lashings it bestowed on public 
offenders. 

“ Bravo ! ” shouted Mr. Tupman and Mr. Snodgrass from the 
passage , when they beheld the walking allegory. 

“Bravo!” Mr. Pickwick was heard to exclaim, from the 
passage. 

“Hoo — roar Pott,” shouted the populace. Amid these salu- 
tations , Mr. Pott, smilipg with that kind of bland dignity which 
sufficiently testified that be felt his power, and knew how to 
exert it, ’got into tlie chariot. * 

Then there emerged finfim the ljouse, Mm- Pott, who would 
have looked very like Apollo if shqhadn’t bad a gown on : con- 
ducted by Mr. Winkle, who in his light red-coat , could not pos- 
sibly have been mistaken for anything but a sportsman , if he 
had not borne an equal resemblance to a general postman. Last 
of all , came Mr. Piekwick , whom the boys applauded as loudly 
as anybody, probably under the impression thatch is tights and 
gaiters were^ome remnants of the dark ages ; and then the two 
vehicles proroeded towards Mrs. Leo Hunter’s, Mr. Weller 
(who. was to assistjn waiting) being stationed on the box of tbat 
in which his master was seated. 

Every one of the men, women, boys, girls, and babies, who 
were assembled to see the visiters in their fancy dresses, screamed 
with delight and ecstacy, when Mr. Pickwick, with the Brigand 
on one arm , and the Troubadour on the other, walked solemnly 
up the entrance. Never were such shouts heard , as those which 
greeted Mr. Tupman’s efforts to fix the sugar-loaf hat on his 
head, by way of entering the garden in style. 

The preparations were on the most delightful scale ; fully rea- 
lising the prophetic Pott’s anticipations about the gorgeousness 
of Eastern Fairy Land, and at once affording a sufficient contra- 
diction to the malignant stgMq^nts of the reptile Independent. 
The grounds were mdre thai\ an acre and a quarter in extent, 
and they were filled with pdbple ! Never was such a blaze of 
beauty, and fashion , and literature. There was the young lady 

i. • * 12 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



178 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

who “ did” the poetry in the Eatanswill Gazette, in. the garb 
* of a sultana, leaning upon, the am of the young gentleman who 
“ did ” the review, department y and who * was appropriately 
habited in a field marshal’s uniform — the boots excepted. There 
were hosts of these geniuses , and any reasonable person would 
have thought it honour enough to meet them. But more than 
these , there were half a dozen lions from London, — authors, 
real authors, who had written whole books, and printed them 
afterwards— and here you might see ’em, wafting about, like 
ordinary men v smiling, and talking— «-aye, and talking pretty 
considerable nonsense too, no doubt with the benign intention 
of rendering themselves intelligible tothe common people about 
them. Moreover, there was a band of music in pasteboard caps 5 
four something-ean singers in the costume of their country, and 
a dozen hired waiters in the costume of country — and 
very dirty costume too. And above all, there, was 1 Mrs. Leo 
Hunter in the character of Minerva , receiving the company, 
and overflowing with pride and gratification at the notion of 
having called such distinguished individuals together. 

“ Mr. Pickwick , ma’am,” said a servant, as that gentleman 
approached the presiding goddess, with his hat in his hind, and 
the Brigand and Troubadour on either arm. 

“What — where?” exclaimed Mrs. Leo Hunter starting up 
in an affected rapture of surprise. > 

“ Here,” said Mr. Pickwiok. ■ • . n ,*• 1 - ■</ 

“ Is it possible that I have really the gratification of behold* 
ing Mr. Pickwick himself! ” ejaculated Mrs. Leo Hnnter. 

“ No other % ma’am,” replied Mr. Pickwiek , tawing very low. 
“ Permit me to introduce my friends — Mr. Tupman*— Mr. Winkle 
— Mr. Snodgrass 1 — to the authoress of ‘The Expiring Frog.’” 

Very few people but those who. have tried it,kaow what a 
difficult process it is, to bow in green velvet smalls, and.a tight 
jacket and high-crowned hat, or in blue satin tranks and white 
silks, or knee-cords and topnboots that were never made for 
the wearer, and have heeiraxed upon him without the remotest 
reference to the comparative dimensions of himself and the suit. 
Never were such distortions as Mr. Tupman’s frame, underwent 
in his efforts to appear easy and graceful : — never was such inW 
genious posturing, as his fancy-dressedfWends exhibHed. ' 

“Mr. Pickwick,” said Mrs. Leo Hunter,- “I must, make you 
promise not to stir from my sidethewhale day. There are 
hundreds of people here, thatlmust positively introduce you to.” 
“ You are very kind, ma’am ,i’«aid Mr. Pickwick. ■> 

“ In the first place, here are my little girls ; I had almost for- 
gotten them,” said Minerva, carelessly pointing tqjyards a couple 
of full-grown young ladies, of whom one might lie about twenty. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF TH» PICKWICK CLUB. 179 

and the other ' a year op two Older, and who were dressed' in 
very juvenile costumes — Whether tb make them* look 'ydUtfg', or 
their mamma younger, Mr. PfekwWk does hot dismictlf ’ in- 
form us; ■ > '■ ,i: 1 •• ■ | 6,1 iwj''""' 

“ They are very beautiful,” said Mr. Pickwick , as the’ jiiV£- 
niles tarned away, after being presented. 1 -" ;, u 

“ They are very like their mamma , sir,” said Mr. Pdtt , ma- 
jestically. “ ‘ ‘ i , ■ ■ ‘ ; ' 

“ Oh you naughty man,” -exclaimed Mrs. Leo Hunter, play- 
fully tapping the editor’s arm with her fan. (Minerva With a 
fan!) - * • ■ ' > ' ' ■'* >■ • • 

“ Why now, my dear Mrs. Hunter,” said Mr. Pott, who was 
trumpeter in ordinary at the Den , “ you know that when your 
picture was in ! the Exhibition of the Royal Academy 1 ,' last year, 
everybody inquired Whether it was intended for you, or your 
youngest daughter ; for you were so much alike that there was 
no telling the difference between you.” 

“ Well, and if they did, why need you repeat if, before stran- 
gers?” said Mrs. Leo Hunter, bestowing another tap on the 
slumbering lion of the Eatanswili Gazette. 

“ Count, count,” screamed Mrs. Leo Hunter to a well-whis- 
kered individual in a foreign uniform , who was passing by. 

“ Ah !■ you want me ? *” said the count, tumirtgback. 

“ I want to introduce two very 1 dev§r people to each other,” 
said Mrs. Leo Hunter. “Mr. Pickwick,! have great pleasure 
in introducing you to Count Smoritork.” She added in a hurried 
whisper#) Mr* Pickwick — “ the famoiis foreigner — gathering 
matertals for his great work on England— hOih f^Cdunt Smorl- 
toric; Mr7 PickWiCfc.”* *' , r t n»- ■'« 

“• Mri Pickwick saluted the count with allttre’revereficedue 
to So’ great * man , and (he count drew 1 forth k : set of tablets/ 
‘^What>iyod say, Mrs. Hunt?” inquired the count, smiling 
graciously on the gratified Mrs. Leo Hunter : “Pig Vig or Big 
Vig— iwhatyou caH— Lawyer — eh ? I see — that is it. Big Vig” 
— and! the- count Was proceeding to enter Mr. Pickwick in his 
tablets as a getiHeman of the long-robe , who derived his name 
from thfe ! profession which he belonged 1 ; 1 When Mrs.' Leo 

HnntMrsIntwpOMdP - 1 ; ; f v --f 1 *v < -■'? -■ 

“ No, nd, count;” stCdthe 1 lady; Pick-Wick.” 

“•Ahfiahy'l ‘sCe, ""replied 1 the'Codntr r “Peek — Christian 
name; Weeks ^smrn&me; good, ver good: PCekWeeks.- How 

you do j Weeks?” ' ‘ v; i ? !1 *■' 

“ Quite well , J thank you,” replied Mr. Pickwick , with all 
his usual affability. “ Have you been long in England?” 

“ Long — ver long time — fortnight — more. ” 

“ Do you stay here long ? ” 



Digitized by 



POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


180 

“ Qqq.W0$ 

“ You will,. have eopjigh to do,” said Mr, Pickwick, smiling, 
“ to, gaj^ber all the materials you want , in that time.” 

“ Eh , they are gathered,” said the count. 

“ Indeed!” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ They. are here,” added the count, tapping his forehead 
significantly, “ Large book at home— full of, notes music, 
picture,' science, potry, poltic ; all tings.” n \ . 

“ The word politics, sir,” said Mr. Pickwick, “ comprises , 
in itself, a difficult study of no inconsiderable magnitude. v 

“ Ah!” said the count, drawing out the tablets again, “ ver 
good— fine words to begin a chapter. Chapter forty-seven. 
Poltics. The word poltic surprises .by himself — ” And down 
went Mr. Pickwick’s remark, in Count Smorltork’s tablets, 
with such variations and additions as the count’s exuberant 
fancy suggested , or his imperfect knowledge of. the language 
occasioned. 

“ Count,” said Mrs. Leo Hunter. - , 

“ Mrs. Hunt,” replied the count. ... 

“ This is Mr. Snodgrass, a friend of Mr. Pickwick’s, and 
a poet. ” , 

“ Stop ” exclaimed the count, bringing out the tablets once 
more. “ Head, potry— chapter, literary friends— name Snow- 
grassy ver good. Introduced to Snowgrass — great poet, friend 
of Peek Weeks — by Mrs. Hunt , which wrote other sweet poem 
— what is that name? — Frog — Perspiring Frog— ver good — 
ver good indeed.” And the count put up his tablets , ^nd with 
sundry bows and acknowledgments walked away, thoroughly 
satisfied that he had made the most important and valuable 
additions to his stock of information. , 

“ Wonderful man , Count Smorltork ,” said Mrs. Lep Hunter. 

“ Sound philosopher,” said Pott. , 

‘ ‘ Clear-headed, strong-minded person ,” added Mr. Snodgrass. 

A chorus of by-standers took up the shout of Count Smorl- 
tork’s praise, shook their beads sagely, and unanimously cried 
“Very!” 

As the enthusiasm in Count Smorltork’s favour ran very 
high, his praises might have been sung until the epd of the 
festivities, if the four something-ean singers had not ranged 
themselves in front <of a small apple-tr.ee , to look picturesque , 
anicommenced singing their national songs, which appeared by 
no means difficult of execution , inasmuch as the grand secret 
seemed, to be , that three of the something-ean singers should 
grunt , while the fourth howled. This interesting performance 
having concluded amidst the loud plaudits of the whole company, 
a boy forthwith proceeded to entangle himself with the r ails of a 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 181 

chair, and to jump over it, and crawl under it , and fall down with 
it , and do every thing but sit upon it , and then to mike a cravat 
of his legs, and tie them round his neck, and then to illustrate, 
the ease with which a human being can be made to look like a 
magnified toad — all which feats yielded high delight and sa- 
tisfaction to the assembled spectators. After which , the voice of 
Mrs. Pott was heard to chirp faintly forth , something which 
courtesy interpreted into a song , which was all very classical , 
and strictly in character, because Apollo was himself a composer , 
and composers can very seldom sing their own music or anyboby 
clse’s , either. This was succeeded by Mrs. Leo Hunter’s recita- 
tion of her far-famed ode to an Expiring Frog, which was 
encored once , and Would have been encored twice , if the major 
part of the guests , who thought it was high time to getsomething 
to eat, had not said that it was perfectly shameful to take 
advantage Of Mrs. Hunter's good nature. So although Mrs. Leo 
Hunter professed her perfect willingness to recite the ode again, 
her kind and considerate friends wouldn’t hear of it on any 
account; and the refreshment-room being thrown open , all the 
people who had ever been there before , scrambled in with all 
possible despatch : Mrs. Leo Hunter’s’ usual course of proceed- 
ing , being , to issue cards for a handred , and breakfast for fifty, 
or in othet- words, to feed only the very particular lions, and let 
the smaller animals take care of themselves. 

“ Where is Mr. Pott? ” said Mrs. Leo Hunter, as she placed 
the aforesaid lions around her. 

“ Here I am ,” said the editor, from the very furthest end of 
the room; far beyond all hope of food, unless something was 
done for him by the hostess. / 

“ Won’t you come up hei*e? ” 

“Oh pray don’t mind him,” said Mrs. Pott, in the most 
obliging voice — “ you give yourself a great deal of unnecessary 
trouble, Mrs. Hunter. You’ll do very well there, won’t you 
— dear?” 

“ Certainly —love,” replied the unhappy Pott , with a grim 
smile. Alas for the knout ! The nervous arm that wielded it , 
with such gigantic force upon public characters , was paralysed 
beneath the glance of the imperious Mrs. Pott. 

Mrs. Leo Hunter looked round her, in triumph. Count 
SmorltOrk was busily engaged in taking notes of the contents of 
the dishes ; Mr. Tupmari was doing the honours of the lobster 
salad to several lionesses , with a degree of grace which no 
Brigand ever exhibited before ; Mr. Snodgrass paving cut out 
the young gentleman who cut up the books for the Eatanswill 
Gazette, was engaged in an impassioned argument with the 
young lady who did the poetry ; and Mr. Pickwick was making 



Digitized by v^.ooQle 



182 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

himself universally agreeable. Nothing seemed wanting torender 
the select circle complete;’ When Mr. Led Hunter —whose 
departefeht ’cm thttee oe<5yitifls; was 1 to strind' about in door- 
ways; aitiftaikto tlteiess'impoi’tarit peopte-^udderfly caHedeut— 

“ 'My 5 dear ^trerei’s^Mr.'Charfes Fitr-Marshall.” 

“ Oh dear,” said Mrs. LeoHunter, “ how Anxiously I have 
been expecting him.* 'Pray mate lrodiri,’to let Mr. Fitz-Marshall 
pass. 'Tell 1 MrJ'Fitz-Mftrshalf, my 'dear, 'to -come up to me 
directly , to be'SCOMed ftif coming 1 so late. ’ ' '• 

“ Coming;' my dear ma’am,” cried a voice*; “as 1 (prick as I can 
— crowds ofpeOple-L-Tulfrdom— liarttWdrk^— Very.” 

Mr. Pickwick’S knife and fork fell from his hand. He stared 
across the table at Mr. Tupman ; Whb had dropped his knife and 
fork , and was looking as if he were about to sink inlothe ground 
without further notice. " •* * 1 

“ Ah!” cried the voice, as its owner pushed his way among 
the last five and twenty Turks, officers , cavaliers , arid Charles 
the Seconds, that remained between him and the table, ‘ ‘ regular 
mangle— Baker’s patent— not a crease id toy coat, after aRttiis 
squeezing — might have ‘'got up my linen , as 1 1 camS tilong ’ — 
ha! ha ! riot a bad idea , that — queer thing tO’have it mangled 
when it’s upon one , though — trying process — very.” ' 

WittHhese broken words , a yoimgmahdtessedks a naval 
officer niade his Way up to the table j ankf presented tri’thC as- 
tonished PtekWicki tfns, the identical form and feSturedof Mri 1 Al- 
fred Jingte.*" j/ - :i 1 " <“ • - " ’ 1 M ' 

The #eii4er'Haa i «4r€iy ! tiine to take Mrs. Leo Htiftha^ptof- 
fetedlidftd; vrtiferi'his eyes ieneountered 1 the indignant oSbS of 

“ Hall6 ; !’’ , sSfd Jtogtei' ^Qhite forgot— no directions to pos- 
tilion — give ’em at once— back in a minute.” ' 1 ; ! ‘ 1 ;i 

“ The servant , or Mr. Hunter will do it in a moment, Mr. Fitz- 
Marshall ,” said Mrs. Leo Hunter. 

“No, no — I’ll do it— shan’t belong — back in no time,” 
replied Jingle. With these words he disappeared among the 
crowd. 

“Will you allow mQ: to ask. you, ma’am,” said the excited 
Mr. Pickwick, rising from his seat , “ who that young man is , 
and where he resides ? ” 

“ Hei$># gentleman of fortune , Mr. Pickwick ,” said Mrs. Leo 
Hunter, MftoWhonfv I very much iwawt to introduce < you. The 
count wifi he delighted With him. ”■"-1/ . 

“ Yes , yes ,’’ said Mr. Pickwick , hastily. “ His residence — ” 

“ Is at> present at the Angel at Bury.” 

“At Bury?” 

“ At Bury St. Edmunds , not many miles from here. But dear 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THB PICKWICK CLUB. 183 

me, Mr. Pickwick, you arp pot going, Jo leave.W^ surely, Mr. 
Pickwick , ym fianpot think of going so,SQPfl.”ji , a 
, But lqng before Mrs. Leo Hunter, had fi qisbed .speaking , Mr. 
Pickwick, bad plunged, t^rougb the throng , s apd cached the 
garden , whither,, howa? shottlyaftemards .joined by.Mr^ .Fup- 
man , (Wbo .hadifobowed his, friend Closely,/ -n, 

, “ If’s/of.np o#c,’’,|said Mr. Tuppan. ^He has gone,” , 
“Iknowik,” said Mr. Pickwicks “and I will follow t»im.” 
“Follow him! Where? "-inquired Mr,. Tupman. , 

‘ ‘ Tp die Angel atJBury (replied Mr, Piekwick , speaking very 
quickly. “ How. jIo , wpkPO.W wbom.be; is deceiving. there? He 
deceived ,a worthy man qnee,, and we were the innocent cause. 
Ho shallJWt\dOtijt 1 agftiu^if lean JUelpit * I’ll .expose him. Sam ! 

*i. * .... •. *-< .,#.•« • 

“Here you are, sir,” said Mr. Weller, emerging from a se- 
questered spotowhorobpbadbuan engaged.ia discussing* bottle 

.from the breakfast-table, 
qr.twq hftfoep. Here’* your servant, sir. Proud o’ the 
iidPX^a tbO I4y(W»S^ ]li »febsaid c ,ven,they show’d him.” , 
“Jfojjpw.jpe iuatsnUs^” kaid.MrrvPickwick. “Tupmap, jf I 
stay, at Bury, you, can jqip ,^e, thepei wbep I write. Till then , 
gOOd-bye. . , , , nr — rlar'VO ; f . jr, v ,J| u'-'il • 

, B^tWtrAucoa woro usoloaa- ,.Ma Pickwick was roused v and 
% wM liMSWfr w- .rfiturnod to hiaTOompa- 

hour iba 4 rdaow»od,,oll pr««iWt. recollec- 
tion of Mr. Alfred Jingle, or Mr. Charles Fitz-MarshaJl , in an 

hottlOrQf Pha wagpe, BydbaUime , 
AlCjf^ickjyj^kiiipd, Sapi. Weber > perked on tbp, o«|sidp of a 
stage coach , were every succeeding minute placing a less and 
loss distance between themselves and the good old town of Bury 
Saint Edmunds. 


CHAPTER XVIL , / 

■' TOOFULL bp ABtfeHTtHKE TO BE BElEFW DESCRIBED, 


Tbs&e iSt BO mouth in the whole year v in which nature wears 
a more beautiful appearance than in the month of August. Spring 
has many beauties, and May is a fresh and ^looming month, 
but the charms of this time of year are enhanced by their con- 
trast with the winter season. August has no such advantage. It 
comes when we remember nothing but clear skies , green fields, 
and sweet-smelling flowers — when the recollection of snow, 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



184 POSTHUMOUS 1 PAPERS 

anftMiw, «tad Weak' winds’, has faded; from aar'miildsas com- 
pletely as they have disappeared fromtfee earth yi-andyet what 
a pleasant time it is! Orchards and corn-flekti 1 ring with 7 the 
humtnf labour; trees bend beneath the think etaetferBiof rich 
fruit which bow their branches to the grows df and the corn , 
piled in graceful aheaves, or waving in every light breath that 
sweeps above.it,, a» if it Wooed the sickle , tinges the landscape 
with-a gOlden hue. A, mellow softness appears to hang over the 
whole earth 5 the influence of the. season seems to extend itself 
to the very waggon, whose slow motion across the well-reaped 
field ,is perceptible ionly to i the eye , but strikeswith no harsh 
sound upon the ear. 1 

As. the coach rolls swiftly: past the fields and orchards which 
skirt the road, groupsof women: and children, piling the fruit 
in sieves , or gathering the scattered ears of corn , pause for an 
instant from their labour, and shading the' suh»bilmt fitee with 
a still browner hand 4 gaze upon the* passenger with curloos 
eyes , while some stout urchin , too small to work , but too mis- 
chievous to be left at home, scrambles over the side of the basket 
in which he has been deposited <for security; and kicks and 
screams with delight. The reaper stops in - bis work , and stands 
with, folded, arms , looking at the vehicle «s> it Whirls past 5 and 
the, rough cart-horses bestow a » sleepy glancei upon the smart 
coach team , which says , as plainly as a horse's: glance can, ‘tit’s 
all very fine to look at, but slow going, over a beany field, is 
better than warm work like that, upon a 'dusty road y after all.” 
You cast a loakbehipd you , as you turn a owner of the road. 
The women and children have resumed their labour, the reaper 
once more stoops to his work, the cart-horses have mbved on, 
and all -are , again in.mbtion. - 
The influence of a scene like this , was not lost upon the weft- 
regulated mind of Mr. Pickwick. Intent upon the resolution he 
had formed , of exposing the real character of the nefarious Jin- 
gle, in any quarter in which he might be pursuing his fraudulent 
designs, he sat at first taeiturn and contemplative, brooding 
over the means by which his purpose could be best Attained. By 
degrees his attention grew more and more attracted by the' ob* 
jecUaround him ; and at last he derived as much enjoymeot from 
the - ride, as if it bad been undertaken for the pleasantest reason 
in the World... . . -v: ■ •> 

“ Delightful prospect , Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick.! ,• A ■ -> 

“ Beats the chimbley .pots > sir,” replied Mr. Weller, touching 
his hat. . , . ,,, ... . • ; 

“ I suppose yoju have hardly seen anything but chimney-pots, 
and bricks, and mortar all your, life , Sam,” said Mr, Pickwick , 
smiling. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 185 

“ I worn’t always a boots, sir,” said-Mr. Weller, with a shake 
of the head. “ I was a vagginer’s boy, onee.” 

“ When was that?” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“ When I vas first pitched neck and crop into the world, to 
play at leap-frog with its troubles ,” rephed Sam. “I vas a 
carrier’s boy at startia,’ then a vagginer’s , then a helper, then a 
boots. Now I’m- a gen’lm’n’s servant. I shall be a gen’lm’n my- 
self one of these days , perhaps , with a pipe in my mouth , and a 
summer-house in the back garden. Who knows? I shouldn’t 
be surprised , for^oncd.’U^ ' 

“ You are quite a philosopher, Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ It runs in the family, I b’lieve, sir,” replied Mr. Weller. 
“ My father’s weryimuoh. in that line, now. If my mother-in- 
law blows him up, he whistles. She flies in a passion, and 
breaks his pipe; he steps out, and gets another. Then she 
screams wery loud , and falls into ’sterics ; and he smokes wery 
comfortably ’till she comes to agin. That’s philosophy, sir , 
an’tit?” 

“A very good substitute for it, at air events,” replied 
Mr. Pickwick, laughing. “ It must have been of great service 
to you, in the course of your rambling life, Sam.” 

“ Service, sir,” exclaimed Sam. “ You may say that. Arterl 
run away from the carrier, and afore I took ujj with the vag- 
giner, I liad unfurnished lodgin’s for a fortnight.” 

“ Unfurnished lodgings?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Yes — the dry arches of Waterloo Bridge. Fine sleeping- 
place^ — vkhin ten minutes’ walk of all the public- offices — only 
if there is any objection to it, it is that the sitivtation’s rayther 
too airy. I see.gome queer sights there.” : 

“ Ah , I suppose you did ,” Said Mr. Pickwick , with an air of 
considerable interest. 

“ Sights , sir ,” resumed Mr. Weller, “ as ’ud penetrate your 
benevolent heart, and come out on the other side. You don’t 
see the reg’lar wagrants there ; trust ’em , they knows better 
than that. Young beggars , male and female, as hasn’t made a 
rise in their profession , takes up their quarters there sometimes ; 
but it’s generally the worn-out, starving, houseless creeturs as 
rolls themselves up in the dark corners o’ them lonesome places 
— poor creeturs as an’t up to the twopenny rope.” 

“And pray, Sam, what is the twopenny rope?’* inquired 
Mr. Pickwick- • ‘ 

“The twopenny rope, sir,” replied Mr. Weller, “is just a 
cheap lodgin’house , vere the beds is twopence a night.” 

“ What do they call a bed a rope for?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Bless your innocence , sir, that a’nt it ,” replied Sam. “ Veu 
the lady and gen’lm’n as keeps the Hot-el , first begun business , 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



fM ■ M>ST#»fliOU* PAMIRS 

tfiftyyflSSdJlO tttl 4 k^^h©tfed»'©n tho 1 floor? bolthis wouldn't do at 
no price, ’cos instead o’ taking a moderate twopenn’orlh o’ 
Stt©p'^l8lt^k)dger# tisbdJlO'Helhepe'hatf thbday.Sonow they 
MS ‘UMo'lropeS^i’tMsut shd fd6t apart , and; three from the floor, 
whl<fttig 4 eBi right dodrAtHfe 'room^ and the beds &re mad© of slips 
©feoakfeewaObihg'^ytMtdhod across >.>■ ■ * ■'<; " s ; n 
fi‘tiWeWr i 8»M l M^ ! »wkwidtv •• • ■ 

•saldiJR&iltWeHet’f ^theadwantagd •©* the' plan’s 
hobvious. At six o’clock every •mornJ»Ythey'letS'ge the -ropes 
at^dhd ehdfj'aiidi donk , n *f&lts all 1 the lodgers. ’Consequence is, 
that ! bdng' thoroughly' waked’, they get wpuwery quietly , and 
walkaway!” iy. • i.u'i.i- - >■■:. *i .. . 

“ Beg your paHloti', Bir-,'' 1 said Sard , t Buddmily breaking i off in 
liiB'ldkpiBeious discourse! “IedhrsBury Siinti Edmunds?’* 

“ It is ,” replied Mr. Pickwick. 11 

The-teoatfi rattled through' the. well fphvfedi Bttdetg ; ©£ a( toand- 
* sorjle littkotown , of thriving artdkdeanlyappsaranoe , -and Is top- 
ped before a large inn situated in a wide Open i Street^ nearly 
facmig the old' abbey*; "■ saw «id» twit bcm-;qqi .< ■ t 

- rhAad-iHis'/’ said Mr-.i PicbwipkV looWnglopi 'Hs tbcAngel. 
We alight here, ''Sam. dhic eomeieatetiott id Beoessaryi' <€htder a 
ptfe'Ste roomy land do t not hi^atioh ruy inaifm ¥od 'understand. ” 

idt»itight as « trivet yl Bin/’" replied 'Mr: WeHer, iwith awinkof 
intelligence y and having' dragged i Mr i f Pibb wick's pot-ttnaateau 
from: the hind booty hi to whichiit’hhdtfcen bafltUytiatmmvbhen 
thoy jjoinfed; the i coach at- Katankwill, > Mr; Welter-' disappeared 
on his errand. A private uadltt was speedHj engaged^ and into 
flbMiolPithh'hArAvailarfheidA without delay.^ ■< «r no rhsA 
' w sNowiSasn ^saidAhv Pk&wicky u < thefirattbingteobeidane 
woife / ■ .-‘•nom.viu thil ityu *•>( 

O'Oriesr dinner, sir,” interposed Mr. Weller, -'♦filter wary late, 
sir.’! *>:>.-> -If »>: • 

“ Ahj So it is,”.said Mr. Pickwick, looking; at) his watcbv 

“ Ton are right, Som.” ** - .•> • Mtvi' 

44 And if - 1 might: ad wise ,sir,” added Mr* WeHer, “ I’d just 
have- a- good night’s; reStearterwards , >and .nob begin; inquiring 
after this. hc«e deep ’nxt ’itilL the moraini’i Thereto; nothin?*© re- 
fresh in’ as sleepiyshvasithe sertrantgiil^aid afdreshe drank ihe 
egg^cfup- 4 flbd'.lauaaniawi’f'i:> . J« .-tom -d at* n u t a ai i" * 

- ‘ifcthirtk yteu! aro 'rights t Sbarytnsaid iM*v 'Piebwicfcj “Kit I 
must! first ascertain, that he isiirt Ohe' house y andnot/likely to go 
avhajllhqyh ihi&f/ muii , bii'ni alimony >» bin. , h,r* uniictn > 

w LfeaveiiOhat'ito meo'sirf’b'said Samd fMJet hae order; you a 
snug .fittteidihnatq tend makfemy inquiries below while it’s a get- 
ting ready 5 1 could worm ev’ry secreboUt o’ the boot’s heart , in 
five minutes.”- ..*os ....... 


Digitized by 


Google 


OF (THU «CRWW*rCMJB. W7 

“ Do, so * 7 , said, dMbv i Pickwick i i iand , Mnrl WeHftr <*t B»oe/ *ftr 
tired.. . '.ni-i. f . <j iio* (.'<>11 o-inq 

In half aitbourt Mr. Pickwickwas seated at a very satisfactory 
dinner 5, and in . three quarters Mr- Wetter returned iflfrithothe ins 
telligence tbat,Mr. .Charles, . FitoMarshatti .had ocdecedoJiiBipri? 
vate room to be retained larMi»v.l»tiljfuiitheEinayfi»^<He>was 
going to spend the evening at some, private bouse ,in tbB> neigh- 
bourhood, had ordtared the,boots fcl!8it/up-|intil,tei^(ltra4 and 
had taken his servant'vvith him.y /huio u j\< \k wowf... 

“ Now* sir,” arguedMr. Welter, When helhad concluded his 
report , “ ifj oanyge^a talk with blahere semnttothftrnojmin’, 
he’ll tell me all his master’s concerns.” : / ... . 

“j How do.you iknowi thefc? ’’-interposed Mr. (Pickwick. .■ , . . 

“ Bless your heart ; sic^isecvants always- do replied Mr. 
Weller. ‘ ..ir. !••> 

, Oh ^ahq X forgot, ttyrt^Vsaid, Mr. Pickwick.. “ WeM.” 

“ -T8m» youioannawaitge wiliafc’s best to be done > sir; and we 
canaot accordingly .' ” *. ,--t i, . . 

As it appeared that this was the best arrangement that pould 
be-madeyU was ripattyia^eed^ipeoL) Mr.. Wetter , by-his (master's 
permission^ vetoed to spend; the leveoiiag in, Ms «wn way.-, and 
waajshcirifiyi.afte^aBdael^eitoii^dheiURftnhnedaniCMoe'efthe 
assembled company*, iotoi lhq,taprrp°Wiehawv tin whichibohonr- 
ahh)dmsbheiacqwttedihin^ftafipjm)^)tothe aahsfaotionofthe 
geattowentitfequeBtrrftithaititoeir, rodm of faugh tar aod appreha? 
fion penetrated to-’Mrj Pickwiek’is bcd-rootn andishertenqd the 
tewniofbiinaturairest, by at teaabttireehwify. b n, ! , , 

Early on the ensuing fnaroibgq Mr,, Welter. AvaadispelUng' all 
tto-iferBcfebri jrtawitts ,, of the- previous! /ewawngtaieonviviaKty, 
through the instrumentality of a halfpenny shower-bath < having 
induced,* yfthng gantlftniate afttaseteedjto the «tabte*department , 
by the offer of that coin , to pump over his head and face , until 
bflbwas perfectly) restored ) , when h&' was attracted by the ap- 
pearance of a young fellow in mulberry-coloured livery, .who was 
sitting Ion a ( bench hi. the yard , reading, what appeared to be a 
bymntbookqiwitham air of deep -abstraction^ but .who-ocoasion- 
ally stole.U glance .at the, individual iundar th&pump , aa if lie 
tooteisome interest, ifc ibisi pepoeedings. j i nevertheless. .••„ -in.- ... 

“ You’re a rum ’un to look at, youarcvVthoUgbtMr. Weller 
thftfirst tiaae/hisihyes, encountcrad-tho glanceof.the strangler in 
the mulbernyroalwined suitb who had; adangpysattow,, ugLy face , 
very sunken eyes , and a gigantic head , from which depended a 
quantity, iefi, lank Mack hairy. ‘f iYou’re* rum lunjtf’i (thought Mr. 
Weller^ and; thinking ihtsqi(he vwent/WUiwaahingnhlmsclfi, jmd 
thought, 00 more, about ihirn,, ,■». /, v- ,im - » Woo) 1 . <,.■ *■• 

Still the man kept glancing from his hymn-book to Sam , and 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



ppjs^nujwoys PAPERS 

from Sam to * as ifhe.iwantedto open a conver- 

sation. So at last , Sam , by way of giving him an opportunity 
said , with a familiar mod— , , , j, 

?< y6u , go vernor ? ” 

“ f. am happy to say, I am pretty well , sir,” said the man , 
speaking with great deliberation , and closing the hook. “ I hoDe 

“ Why, if I felt less like A walking brandy-bottle , I shouldn’t 
beqiiite so staggftry this mornin’,” replied Sam. “ Are you stop- 
pin'iift this house , old 'un?” 

The mulberry mao replied in the affirmative. 

“Howwasitybuwom’tone ofus, last night? inquired Sam, 
scrubbing his- free With the towel. “ You seem one of the jolly 
sort — looks as eonwivial as a live trout in a lime-basket added 
Mr. "Weller, in a» under tone. 

“ 1 was outcast night , with iny master,” replied the stranger. 

u What's his name?" inquired Mr. Weller, colouring up very 
red with, sudden excitement , and the friction of the towel com- 
bined. 

“ Fitz-Marshall ,” said the mulberry-man. 

“'Giveftrayoar band ,” saidMr. Weller, advancing ; “ 1 should 
like to know you. I like your appearance , old fellow.” 

»:• Well , that Is very strange ,” said the mulberry man , with 
groat simplicity of manner. “T like your’s so much, that! wanted 
to speak to yoii , from the very first moment I saw you under 
the pump.” ‘ ' • J 

“ Did you though?” 

“ Upon my word. Now, isn’t that curious?” 

“ W.ery sing’ler,” said Sam , inwardly congratulating himself 
upon the softness of the stranger. “ What’s your name, mY pa- 
triarch?” 

“Job.” 

“ And, a wery good name it is ; only one, I know, that ain’t got 
a nickname to- it. ’ ft* What’s the other name ? ” 

“ Trotter, said the stranger. What is yours?”. 

Sam bore io mihd Ms master’s caiitiOriyand replied, 

“ My name’s Walker; my master’s name's Wilkins. Will you 
take a drop o’ somethih^thlsfttierbth’, Mr. Trottier?”' 

“ Mr. Trotter acquiesced' ‘in, (ftife agreesMU' prep&ai : and 
having deposited 1 bis b®®fls 'in tts UoaflJpocket yabcbMpaiiied'Mr. 
Weller to file, lapi^ where they -were soon occupiedin'discttsMing 
an exhilarating compound, formed by mixing together, , in> a 
pewter vessel, certain, quantities oP British Hollands, and the 
fragrant essence of the .clove. , : 

“ And what sort of a/place have you got ? ” inquired Sam , as 
he filled his companion’s glass, for the second time. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF TH* #ldKlWf<^ cttyB. 


Bad ,” said. Job* smacking 1 his lipb; "Hbty irittil!” ’ 
1 You don’t mean that ?’* Said Sanl. ’ ‘ ilt ’ ' 

, . . . . „ - <) I ft! IIVUU I 


'V> 

189 

i) iiiftri mo-' 

(* 

1 i; 1 1 1 * Y/ . 

“I do, indeed. Worse than that, my ms-i efp. gpigg, ( be 
married.” T I • 

“ No!” ■ •*; , , • • _ ,, ! •. i- 

u Yes ; and nrdWe than (hat , too , he’s going tp, pun, ajwayi with 
an immense rich heiress, from boardinj^hopb” I n .yt! if 
u WHat a dragon ,” said Sam , refilling.his companion’s glass. 

“ It’s some boarding-school in this town * I support *; a‘nt it ? ” 
Now, although this question was pni intbe most cdteless tOne 
imaginable , Mr. Job Trotter plainly showed , by gestures',' that 
he perceived his new friend’s anxiety to draw forth an answer 
to it. He emptied his glass , looked mysteriously at bis Com pa- , 
nion , winked both of his small eyes, one after the other; and 
finally made a motion with lps arm , as if he were working an 
imaginary pump-handle : thereby intimating that he (Mr. Trot- 
ter ) considered himsel f as undergoing the process of being pump- 
ed by Mr. Samuel Weller. 

“ No , no,” said Mr. Trotter^ |n conclusion , “ that’s not to 
be told to everybody. That is a, .secret — a great secret, Mr. 
Walker.'”' .. . ... • •• .• - >-' 

As the mulberry man said this, he turned his glass dpside 
down , by way pf reminding his companion that he had nothing 
left wherewith tq slake his thirst, Sam observed the hint ; and 
feeling the delicate manner in which it was conveyed , ordered 
the pewter vessel to be refilled , whereat the small eyes of the 
mulberry man glistened. t . . ." ■. ■ . 

“And so it’s a secret?” said Sam. 

“ I should rather suspect it was,” said the mulberry -man , sip- 
ping his liquor, with a complacent face. 

“ I suppose your mas’r’s very rich ? ” said Sam. 

Mr. Trotter smiled, and holding his glass in his left hand, 
gave four distinct slaps on the pocket of his mulberry indescrib- 
ables with his right, as if to Intimate, that his master might have 
done the same without alarming anybpdy ranch by the chinking 
of coin, I, /. . , . -• 

“ Ah,” said Sam;“ that’s thPjgamea is it?” ? • 

The mulberry man nodded significantly;; - 
“ Well , find don’t yon think ,- «Sd> fetter,” remonstrated Mr. 
WeUer,“that if yonlet your master tdketti'this NCi^eybung lady, 


you’re a precious rascal? ” >• ; • > • i : 

“1 know that,” Said JobTrotteiq turning upon his companion 
a countenance of deep contrition, and 1 groaning Slightly. “I 
know that, and that’s what it is that preys upon my mind. But 
what am I to do ? ” 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


our 


|%b 

' tol Sfcffl^ai-Wril^’to tH4ttls§i#, Miff 

nft(ittei l !* r ‘” no * noiMHjn > f fi a ! ; ■ •■•■■i '(•■•' ■•' iliniii >i 

“ Who’d believe me?* 1 implied Jdb ’l¥oWerl' c,l The young la- 
dy’s; the Very picture- -of innocence 'anti discretion 

She’d deny it , and so would my master. Who’d believte me? I 
should lose my pfeee , and get indicted for a conspiracy, or Some 
such thing ; that’s all I should take by my motion. 


‘*-There?s somethin! 'in that,” said Sam, ruminating ^‘Uhfere’s 
somethin’ in that.” i n *• 

“If! knew any respectable gentleman who would take the 
matter up,” continued, Mr. Trotter, “I might have spine hope 
of preventing the elopement ; but there’s the same difficulty, Mr. 
Walker, just the same. 1 know no gentleman in this strange 
place ; and ten to one if I did, whether he would believe my Story.” 

“ Come this way,” said Sam, suddenly jumping up, and grasp- 
ing the mulberry man by the arm. “ My mas’r’s the man you 
want, I see.” And after a slight resistance on the part of. Job 
Trotter, Sam led his newly-found friend to the a^arthietit of 
Mr. Pickwick, to whom he presented him, together with a brief 
summary of the dialogue we have just repeated. 1 14 

“lam very sorry to betray my master, sir,” said Job Trptter, 
applying to his eyes a pink check pocket-handkerchief ofabout 
three inches square. ' 1 ' r ; 

“Tlje feeling does you a great deal b^hohodr,” Yeb'tfbfl Mr. 
Pickwick; ^ but' it is your duty;' neVer(lhelesS.”’ : . 

ltnow rt’is toy dutV^lr, replied Job 4 . 7 witfagniat^ttiotion.' 
“ We should 'all trf to discliaY&e our duty,'ii?; 'and l^niirfny 1 
endCavout* to discharge mines, sir; but ft is a hardMaf th TOti i af 
a master, sir. Whose clothes you wear, and whose bread ‘you hat, 
even though he is a scoundrel, sir.” ' . ! . 

“You are a very good fellow,” said Mr. Pickwick , fflucp af- 
fected, “an honest fellow.” • 

“ Come , come interposed Sam , who had Witrfessbd M?i 
Trotter’s’ tears with considerable impatient; “ bloW this here 

i rid ^obd/ttife* won’t.”' 

toQnd 


water-cart bis’ness. It won’t do ! 



/feilbf, fili ybui'Pihd'Wlth 

. . , , ri tVjtlst'putfthtthTtWpHlk 

gingham into'yblfr Y>6£keft‘. I,i ^ i ’'a’h < l Sb''hafiidroinfe that ydu need 
keep waving it about, as if you was atight-rope dancer.”' 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE pi£$m<&vW9*- • 

“ «f(W £ick\y$ft gfiODStt^Job’ t 

“ although his mode of expressing his opinion is somewtyajtjj]^ 
mel| #l ^jd iwasioi^k^ *>■/-, ihd L ori // ' 

sir,r very right/’* said Mr.; Trotter^ u »n4fJi?W4H &yt> 
Way,BP'k«|ger.?% i' f ' : • <. • ».! ‘ e : . )i / s :>b b r ->ri<" 

Very wdl/f^said Mr; Pkkwick; “ Now* wtofra tisthif; board* 
ing-school?” i r I'- u: v. vri ■ / /! K i LiJuite I iifi *T * v f } i JOiri.1 f{-)n< 

“life alarge * old ^, reddrtiok housfc y jiist batsido the - town , 
sir,” replied Job Trotter. 

“And wheri/'daid Mr. Pickwick, “when is this villanous 
design to be cifiried into execution — when is this elopement to 
take place?” 

“ To-night, sif,” replied Job. 

“ To-night !* y exdaimed Mr. Pickwick. 

“ This very night, sir,’’ replied Job Trotter. “ That is what 
alarms me so ipuch.” 

“ Instant metres must be taken ,” said Mr. Pickwick. “ 1 
will see thelac^y who keeps the establishment, immediately.” 

“ I beg your pardon, sir,” said Job, “ but that course of pro- 
ceeding will never do.” 

“Why not ? f ” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

■ My master, sir, is a very artful man.” 

“ I know he said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ And he hats so wound himself round the old lady’s heart , 
sir,” resumed Job, ‘‘that she would believe nothing to his pre- 
judice, if youjw^nt down on your bare knees, and swore it', 
especially as yo$ Ijaye no proof but the words of a servant , who, 
for anything s^e kpows (and my master would be sure to say 
so ) , was discharged for some fault , and does this in revenge.” 

“What had better to be done, then?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Nothing but taking him in the very fact of eloping, will con- 
vince the old lady, sir,” replied Job. 

“ All them old cats will run their heads agin mile-stones,” 
observed Mr. WqJIer in a parenthesis. 

“ But this taking him in the very act of elopement, would be 
a very dillicult thjfl# to accomplish , I fear,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ I don’t knpw^jjir,” said Mr. Trotter, after a few moments , 
reflection. “ I it might be very easily done.” 

“ How?” w^s f jVtr. Pickwick’s inquiry. 

“Why,” rep^ed Mr. Trotter, “my master and I , being in 
the confidence of the two servants, will be secreted in the kit- 
chen at ten o’clock* When the family have retired to rest , we 
shall come outrbfdbe kitchen , and the young lady out of her 
bed-room. A post-pfraise will be waiting , and away we go.” 

“ Well,” said Mr. Pickwick. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



492 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ Well, sir, I have been thinking that if you were waiting in 
the garden behind , alone — ” 

“ Alope!” said Mr. Pickwick. “ Why alone?” 

“ I thought it very natural,” replied Job , “ that the old lady 
wouldn’t like such an unpleasant discovery to be made before 
mope persons than can possibly be helped. The young lady too, 
sir— consider her. feelings.” 

“ You are very right,” said Mr. Pickwick. “ The considera- 
tion evinces great delicacy of feeling. Go on 5 you are very right.” 

“ Well, sir, I was thinking that if you were waiting in the back 
garden alone, and I was to let you in , at the door which opens 
into it , from the end of the passage , at exactly half-past eleven 
o’clock , you would be just in the very moment of time , to assist 
me in frustrating the designs of this bad man , by whom I have 
been unfortunately ensnared.” Here Mr. Trotter sighed deeply. 

“ Don’t distress yourself on that account,” said Mr. Pickwick ; 
“ if he had one grain of the delicacy of feeling which distin- 
guishes you, humble as your station is, I should have some hopes 
of him.” 

Job Trotter bowed low ; and in spite of Mr. Weller’s previous 
remonstrance, the tears again rose to his eyes. 

“ I never see such a feller , h said Sam. “ Blessed if I don’t 
think he’s got a main in his bead as is always turned on. ” 

“ Sam ,” said'Mr. Pickwick, with great severity, “ hold your 
tongue. ” 1 

“ Wery well , sir, ” replied Mr. Weller. 

“I don’t like this plan,” said Mr. Pickwick, after deep 
meditation. “ Why cannot I communicate with the young 
lady’s friends ? ” 

“ Because they live one hundred miles from here , sir, ” re- 
sponded Job Trotter. 

“ That’s a clincher,” said Mr. Weller, aside. 

“ Then this garden , ” resumed Mr. Pickwick. “ How am I to 
get into it?” 

“ The wall is very low, sir, and your servant will give yeu a 
leg up. ” 

“ My servant will give me a leg up ,” repeated Mr. Pickwick , 
mechanically. “ You will be sure to be near this door, that you 
speak of? ” 

“ You cannot mistake it, sir-, it’s the only one that opens into 
the garden. Tap at it, when you hear the dock strike, and I 
will open it instantly. ” 

“ I don’t like the plan ,” said Mr. Pickwick ; “ but as I see 
no other, and as the happiness of this young lady’s whole life is 
at stake , I adopt it. I shall be sure to be there.” 

Thus, for the second time , did Mr. Pickwick’s innate good- 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE brciwick CLUB. 19^ 

feeling involve him in an enterprise , from which he wo'iilXrnpst 
willingly have stood aloof. .'twiev ,71 

“ What is the name of the house ? ” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

‘ ‘ Westgate House , sir. You turn a little to the right;wfa6ii you 
get to the end of the town ; it stands by itself, some little distance 
off the high road , with the name on a brass plate on the gate.” 

“ I know it said Mr. Pickwick. “ I observed it once before, 
when I was in this town. You may depend upon me.” 

Mr. Trotter made another bow, and turned to depart, when 
Mr. Pickwick thrust a guinea into his hand. 

“ You’re a line fellow,” said Mr. Pickwick , “and I admire 
your goodness of heart. No thanks. Remember— eleven o’clock.” 

“ There is no fearof my forgetting it, sir,” replied Job Trotter. 
With these words he left the room, followed by Sam. 

“Isay,” said the latter, “ not a bad notion that ’ere crying. 
I’d cry like a rain-water spout in a shower, on such good terms. 
How do you do it?” 

“ It comes from theheart, Mr. Walker,” replied Job solemnly. 
“ Good morning , sir.” 

‘ ‘ You’re a soft customer , you are 5— we’ve got it all out o’ you , 
anyhow,” thought Mr. Weller, as Job walked away. 

We cannot state the precise nature of the thoughts which passed 
through Mr. Trotter’s mind , because we don’t know what they 
were. 

The day wore on , evening came , and at a little before ten 
o’clock Sam Weller reported that Mr. Jingle and Job had gone 
out together, that their luggage was packed up, and that they had 
ordered a chaise. The plot was evidently in execution, as Mr. 
Trotter had foretold. 

Half-past ten o’clock arrived , and it was time for Mr. Pickwick 
to issue forth on his delicate errand. Resisting Sam’s tender of 
his great coat, in order that he might have no -incumbrance in 
scaling the wall , he set forth, followed by his attendant. 

There was a bright moon , but it was behind the clouds. It 
was a fine dry .night, but it was most uncommonly dark. Paths, 
hedges , fields , houses, and trees, were enveloped in one deep 
shade. The atmosphere was hot and sultry, the summer lightning 
quivered faintly on .the verge of the horizon , and was the Only 
sight that varied the dull gloom in which everything was wrap- 
ped— sound there was-none , except the distant barking of some 
restless house-dog. * * ■ 

They found the house, read the brass-plate, walked round the 
wall, and stopped at that portion* of it which divided them from 
the bottom of the garden. • - • • ’ 

“ You will return to the inn Sam>, when you have assisted 
me over, said Mr. Pickwick. 

1. * 13 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



194 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ Wery well, sir.” 

“ And you will sit up, ’till I return.” 

“ Cept’oly, sir.” 

“Tate hold of my leg ; and when I say >• Over’ raise me gently.” 
“ All right , sir,” • 

Having settled these preliminaries , Mr. Pickwiek grasped the 
top of the wall, and gave the word “ Over,” which was very 
literally obeyed. Whether his body partook in some degree of 
the elasticity of his mind, or whether Mr. Weller’s notions of 
a gentle push were of a somewhat rougher description than 
Mr. Pickwick’s , the immediate effect of his assistance was to 
jerk that immortal gentleman completely over the wall on to 
the bed beneath , where , after crushing three gooseberry-bushes 
and a rose-tree, be finally alighted at full length. 

“ You ha’n’t hurt yourself, I hope , sir?” said Sam , in a loud 
whisper, as soon as he recovered from the surprise consequent 
upon the mysterious disappearance of his master. 

“ I have not hurt myself, Sam, certainly,” replied Mr. Pick- 
wick, from the other side of the wall ; “ but I rather think that 
you have hurt me” •' 

“ I hope not, sir,” said Sam. - 1 ' 

“ Never mind ,” said Mr. Pickwick , Vising , “ it’s nothing but 
a few scratches. Go away, or we shall be overheard.” ■ 

“ Good-bye, sir.” , ' . C j 

“ Good-bye.” -. 

With stealthy steps Sam Weller departed, leaving JVlr, Pick- 
wick alone in the garden. , . , 

Lights occasionally appeared in the different windows, of. the 
house, or glanced from the staircases, as if the inmates were 
retiring to rest. Not caring to go too near the door, until the 
appointed time, Mr. Pickwick crouched into an angle of the 
wall , and awaited its arrival, 

It was a situation which might well have depressed the spirits 
of many a man. Mr. Pickwick , however, felt neither depression 
nor misgiving. He knew that his purpose was in the main a good 
one, and he placed implicit reliance on the high-minded Job. It 
was dull, certainly, not .to- say dreary 5 but 1 a contemplative 
man, can always employ himself in meditation. Mr. Pickwick 
had meditated himself into a doze , when he was roused by the 
chimes of the neighbouring church ringing out the hour — half- 
past eleven. 

“ That’s the time ,” thought Mr. Pickwick , getting cautiously 
on his feet. He looked up at the house. The lights had disap- 
peared, and the shutters were closed — all in bed, no doubt. 
He walked on tip-toe to the door, and gave a gentle, tap. Two 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 195 

or three minutes passing without any reply, he gave another tap 
rather louder, and then another rather louder than that. 

At length the sound of feet was audible upon the stairs , and 
then the light of a candle stone through the key-hole of the door . 
There was a good deal of unchaining and unbolting, and the 
door was slowly opened. 

Now the door opened outwards : and as the door opened 
wider and wider, Mr. Pickwick receded behind it, more and 
more. What •Was his astonishment when he just peeped out, 
by way of caution, to see that the person who had opened it 
was — not Job Trotter, but a servant-girl with a candle in her 
hand ! Mr. Pickwick drew in his head again , with the swiftness 
displayed by that admirable melodramatic performer, Punch, 
when he lies in wait for the flat-headed comedian with the tin 
box of music. 

“ It must have been the cat , Sarah ,” said the girl , address- 
ing herself to some one in the bouse. “Puss, puss, puss — 
tit, tit, tit.” 

6ut.no animal being decoyed by these blandishments, the girl 
slowly closed the doOr, and re-fastened it; leaving Mr. Pickwick 
drawn up straight against the wall. 

“ This is very curious,” thought Mr. Pickwick. “ They are 
sitting up, beyond their usual hour, I suppose. Extremely un- 
fortunate , that they should have chosen this night, of all others , 
for such a purpose — exceedingly.” And with these thoughts, 
Mr. Pickwick cautiously retired to the angle of the wall in which 
he had been before ensconced ; waiting until such time as he 
might deem it safe to repeat the signal. 

He had not been here five minutes , when a vivid flash of 
lightning was followed by a loud peal of thunder that crashed 
and rolled away in the distance with terrific noise — then came 
another flash of lightning , brighter than the other, and a second 
peal of thunder louder than the first , and then down came the 
rain , with a force and fury that swept everything before it. 

Mr. Pickwick was perfectly aware that a tree is a very danger- 
ous neighbour in a thunder-storm. He had a tree on his right , 
a tree on his left, a third before him , and a fourth behind. If he 
remained where he was , he might fall the victim of an accident ; 
if he showed himself in the centre of the garden , he might be 
consigned to a constable ; — once or twice he tried to scale the 
wall , but having no other legs this time , than those with which 
Nature had furnished him, the only effect of his straggles was 
to inflict a variety of very unpleasant gratings on his knees and 
shins , and to throw him into a state of the most profuse per- 
spiration. 

“ Whala dreadful situation ,” said Mr. Pickwick , pausing to 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



196 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


wipe his brow after this exercise. He looked op at the house—* 
all was’dark. They must be goneto bed now. He would tpy the 
signal again. 

He walked on tip-toe. across, the moist gravel , apd, tapped at 
the door. He held his breath, and listened at the key-ijolp, Pfo 
reply : very odd. Another knock. He listened , again,. Tbepe was 
a low whispering inside , and then i a . voiqe cried t-t . 

“Who’s there?” 


“ That’s not Job,” thought Mr. Pickwick, hastily drawing 
himself straight up against the wall again. “ It’s a woman.” 

He had scarcely had time to form this conclusion , .when a 
window above stairs was thrown up, and. three or Ipur female 
voices repeated the query — “ Who’s there?” 

Mr. Pickwick dared not. move hand or foot. It was, Hear that 
the whole establishment was roused. He made up bi» mind to 
remain where he was , until the alarm had subsided : and then 
to make a supernatural effort, and get over the wall, op perish 
in the attempt. 

Like all Mr. Pickwick’s determinations , this was the best that 
could be made under the circumstances; but, unfortunately, it 
was founded upon the assumption that they would mot venture to 
open the door, agaih. What was his discomfiture, when he heard 
the chain and bolts withdrawn ,> andsaw the door slowly open- 
ing, wider and wider ! 1 He retreated into the corner, step by 
step ; hut dd -what he 1 would, the (interposition of his own person 
prevented ite bding^openecftouts, utmost widths . i , 

“ Who’s there? " SCrdamed a numerous chorus ofitreble voices 
from the staircase inside -, cdnsistiag of the spinBter lady of the 
establishment, three teachers , five female servants, and thirty 
boarders, all half-dressed, and in a forest of curl-papers. 

Of course Mr. Pickwick didn’t say who was there h and 
then the burden of the chorus changed into**** 1 Lor’ ! I am so 
frightened.” ■■■ ■.<* ! ;j.; , r *t «• 

“ Cook^” said' the la'd^ abbess, WhbTddk Cfti^td be'onthe top 


stair, the very last of the group — “ Godk, Whydon’fyoir&o a 
little 



thirty 

j*6ot r 

»dy 'abbesfj'^w^iijgreat di'gn/fe-'^Mhh’t 

ia m u P ofi 

;o cry, and th< 
partisanship 


•b©wdei£ s , < v( r ,o ,„iji , ,, 7 v ;.»r,h e , 

“Cook,” said the lady ” 
answer ple^ r 

garden, immediately.” 

Here the cook begap to cry, and the hqqs^maid said it was 
“a shame!” for which partisanship she received' a. month’s 
warning on the spot. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. ID? 

“Do you hear, cook?” said the lady abbess, stamping her 
foot /impatiently. ’ ’ ' 

‘ ‘ Don’t you'hem 1 jfoiir missis , cook 1 ? * saidthetlireb tea- 
chers. . , .. 

' ‘“’Whlit in imptfdeiitTtiing that cook is f” said -the thirty 
boarders. " 1 ’■ 1 *' !! 

Thb uhfoFtunatd cook, thus strongly urged, advanced a step 
or two, and holding her candle just where it prevented her seeing 
anything at all, declared there was nothing there, and it' must 
have been the windy and the door was just going to be dosed in 
consequence,' when an’ inquisitive boarder, who had been peep- 
ing between the hinges , set up a fearttal screaming , which called 
back the cook and the housemaid, and: all the more adventu- 
rous, in no time. ' ' : i 

“ What is the matter with Miss Smithers?'’ said the lady ab- 
bess, as the aforesaid Miss Smithers proceeded to go into hyste- 
rics offOur ydung lady power. 1 
'“Dor,' Miss Smithers dear,** said the other nine-ahd-twenty 
boarders. 

“Ob' the- wan the man behind the door!” screamed 
MiiSs ‘Smithers;' : ’ ! 

The lady abbess 'no sbohef heard this appalling cry, than she 
retreated to her owtobed-reofo; doable-locked the door, and 
tinted awdy all eonlfortably. The boarders , and the teachers, 
and; the servants , fell back upon the stairs, and upon each other; 
and never was such a screaming,' and fainting, and struggling, 
beheld. In the miffift of the tumult , Mr. Pickwick emerged feom 
his‘concealment, and presented himself amongst them. - 
' '“’Ladies dear ladies , ” said Mr; Pickwick. 

^Ob; he' says '-we’re dear,” cried the oldest and ugliest' 
teacher; “ Oh the wretch ! ” 1 

. “ Ladies ,” roared Mr. Pickwick , rendered desperate by the 
danger of his situation. Hear me. I am no robber. I want the 
lady of the house.” 

“..Oh, .wihata ferocious monster ! ”, screamed, another teacher. 
“He wants Miss Tomkins.” , . 

Here there was a general scream. . ., , 

. “ Ring jthe alarm, bell, somebody,” cried a dozen voices.' 

“ Don’t— don’t,” shotted Mr.’ Pjckwick. Look at mb. Do 
I look like a robber ? My dear ladies —you'niaV blhd the 1 hand 
and leg, or lock me up in a closet, if you like. Only heSr’W’HfcftT 
have gptto say— -oiiiy hearme.’” J0 ” ' 

“ How did you come in our garden? ”• faulteredthe’ house- 
maid. 

“Call the lady of the house, and I’ll tell her everything — 
everything : ” said Mr. Pickwick , exerting his lungs to the ut- 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



198 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

most pitch. “ Call her — only be quiet , and call her, and you 

shall hear everything.” 

It might' have been Mr. Pickwick’s appearance , or it might 
have been his manner, or it might have been the temptation — 
so irresistible to a female mind — of hearing something at pre- 
sent enveloped in mystery, that reduced the more reasonable 
portion of the establishment (some four individuals) to a state 
of comparative quiet. By them it was proposed, as a test of Mr. 
Pickwick’s sincerity, that he should immediately submit to per- 
sonal restraint ; and that gentleman having consented to hold a 
conference with Miss Tomkins, from the interior of a closet in 
which the day boarders hung their bonnets and sandwich-bags, 
he at once stepped into it, of his own accord , and was securely 
locked in. This revived the others; and Miss Tomkins having 
been brought to, and brought down, the conference began. 

“ What did you do in my garden, man ? ” said Miss Tomkins, 
in a faint voice. 

“ I came to warn you, that one of your young ladies was going 
to elope to-night ,” replied Mr. Pickwick , from the interior of 
the closet. 

“ Elope! ” exclaimed Miss Tomkins , the three teachers , the 
thirty boarders, and the five servants. “ Who with? ” 

“ Your friend, Mr. Charles Fitz-Marshall.” 

“ My friend ! I don’t know any such person.” 

“ Well; Mr. Jingle, then.” 

. “I never heard the name in my life.” 

“ Then, I have been deceived , and deluded ,” said Mr. Pick- 
wick. “ I have been the vietim of a conspiracy — a foul and base 
conspiracy. Send to the Angel, my dear ma’am, if you don’t be- 
lieve me. Send to the Angel for Mr. Pickwick’s man-servant, I 
implore you , ma’am.” 

“ He must be respectable— he keeps a man-servant,” said Miss 
Tomkins to the writing and ciphering governess. 

“It’s my opinion, Miss Tomkins,” said the writing and ci- 
phering governess , “ that his man-servant keeps him. / think 
he’s a madman , Miss Tomkins , and the other’s his keeper.” 

“ I think you are very right, Miss Gwynn,” responded Miss 
Tonjkins, “ Let two of the,servants repair to the Angel, and let 
the others remain here, to protect us.” 

So two of the servants were despatched to the Angel r in search 
of Mr. Samuel Weller : and the remaining three stopped behind 
to protect Miss Tomkins , and the three teachers , and the thirty 
boarders. And Mr. Pickwick sat down in the closet, beneath 
a grove of sandwhich-bags , and awaited the return of the mes- 
sengers , with all the philosophy and fortitude he could summon 
to his aid. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 199 

An hour and a half elapsed before they came back , and when 
they did come , Mr. Pickwick recognised , in addition to the 
voice of Mr. Samuel Weller two other voices, the. tones of 
which struck familiarly on his ear; but whose they were, he 
couldpotfor thgjifeof him, call to mind. 

. A .very brief conversation ensued. The door was unlocked. 
Mr. Pickwick stepped out of the closet , and found himself in the 
pres wee .ofthe whole establishment of We&tgate House,, Mr. 
Samueli Weller and; — old Wardle , and. his destined son-in-law, 
Mr, Trundle 1 ... 

“My-dear friendi,” said Mr.'Pickwick , running forward and 
grasping Wardle’sthand ; “ my dear friend , pray , for Heaven’s 
sake , explain to this lady the unfortunate and dread Ail situation 
in which I am placed. You must have heard it from my seWant 5 
say, at all events , my dear fellow , that I am neither a robber 
non-a.madinan.” - 

“ I have said so , my dear friend. I have said so already,” 
replied Mr.. Wardle , shaking the right hand of his friend, while 
Mr.'Trtindle shook the left. 

“ And whoever says, or has said, he is,” interposed Mr. Wel- 
ler, stfeppihg forward , “ says that which is not the truth , but so 
far from it, 'Mi the contrary, quite the rewerse. And if there’s 
any number o’ men ' otr these 1 here premises as has said so, I 
shall be wery happy to' give ’em all's* Very convincing proof 
0’ their being mistaken , in this here wery room, if these wery 
respectable ladies ’ll have the goodness to retire , and order ’em 
upy'ofte at?*# time.” Having delivered this defiance with great 
VfHhhnftty Mr. Weller struck hisdpen palm emphatically with 
his Clewhed fist; and winked pleasantly on Miss Tomkins , the 
intensltyoftwhose horror at his supposing it within the bounds 
of possibility that there could be any men on the premises of 
Wistgate House Establishment for Young Ladies , it is impossi- 
ble to described ' “ 

*'* Mf f PifekWFCk’s explanation having been already partially made, 
waS kdon concluded. But neither in the course of his walk home 
with his friettds, nor afterwards when seated before a blazing 
flrfeT it‘ the 'Sapper he s6 much'needed, could a single observation 
be dPaWn#Omhim. He seemed bewildered and amazed. Once, 
and only once, he turned rdflhd'to'Mr.' Wftrdle • and said , 

< did ydd corrieheih?"’ * ' 1 ’ ' 

11 arid l'caihe dofth ’ here , for some good shooting 

omlhe'j first,” replied Wardle.’ “We arrived to-night and were 
astoniShed^to hear from your servant that ybii Were here too. 
Bfit'I km glad you are ,” said the jolly old fellow, slapping him 
on tfi# ba'tfc. “ I am glad you arc. We shall have a jolly party 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



200 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

on the first, and we’ll give Winkle another chance — eh , old 

boy?” 

Mr. Pickwick made no reply ; he did not even ask after his 
Mends at Dingley Dell, and shortly: afterwards retired for the 
night, desiring Sam to fetch his candle when he rung. 

The bell did ring indue course , and Mr. Weller presented 
himself. 

“ Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick , looking out from under the bed- 
clothes.. 

“ Sir,” said Mr, Weller. 

Mr. Pickwick paused, and Mr. Weller snuffed the candle. 

“ Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick again , as if with a desperate ef- 
fort. 

“ Sir,” said Mr. Weller , once more. ■ 

“ Where is that Trotter ? ” 

“Job, sir?” 

“Yes.” 

“Gone, sir.” 

“ With his master, I suppose? ” > 

“ Friend or master, or whatever he is , he’s gone with him ,” 
repliedMr. Weller. “There’s apair on’em,sir.” 

* “ Jingle suspected my design , and set that fellow on you , 
with this story , I suppose ? said Mr. Pickwick, half choking. 
“ Just that , sir ,” replied Mr. Weller. >[■■■■■■ 

.“It was all false, of course?” 11 

> i‘/Ajfty<sir,” replied Mr. Weller. “Reg’tar do, sir; artful 
dodge.’* :> r . ■ • *. •# 

. “1 don’t think he’ll escape us quite so easily the- nest time , 
Sam? ’’ said Mei Piokwiek. i . - !•' 

“I don’t think, he will, sir.” • . - . n * . . a*,- 

V.Wheneverl meet that Jingle again, wherever it 'is,” said 
Mr. Pickwick, raising himself in bed, and indenting his pillow 
with a tremendous blow, “ I’ll inflict personal chastisement On 
him T in addition, to the exposure he so richly merits. I will, 
or my name is not Pickwick.” 

“ And venever I catches hold o’ that there melan-cholly chap 
with the hlapk.hair ,’’ said Sam , “ if I don’t bring some real water 
into his eyes, for once in a way, my name a’nt Weller. Good 
night, sir.”. vo, /miii'. ' •i-nc • >* -»*p< * <*• 

m < lit . y nBjJ iioj i. l ii* i $ 

- - »i fiU.i 1 *fir V* ili-n'i i-iMj U <*,/’ ” ■ 

. inH'.r* m i ; 1 r* • u - ■ i S * ; hm 

* ■ i * >: * Ml >i,// oil’// - i ' 1 ■; • h '" 

•i ' ; .(Ml 1 1^1 Mint ; . *»' ; ' * J - ■ ' 

, «... • . I W- ' 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


di 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 


201 


I, J„ : r. . * * '•* 

>• Ht. "CHAPTER Xfm."’ 4 ' '* '• 

SHOWING THAT. All ATTACK QI SHEUM ATI8M , IN SOME CASK , ACTS AS A QUMEENEE 
TO INVENTIVE GENIUS. ’ ‘ 

The constitution of Mr. Pickwick , though able to sustain a 
very considerable amount of exertion and fatigue , was not proof 
against such a combination of attacks as he had undergone on 
the memorable night , recorded in the last chapter. The process 
of being washed in the night air, and rough-dried in a close closet, 
is as dangerous as it is peculiar. Mr. Pickwick was laid up with 
an attack of rheumatism. 

But although the bodily powers of the great man were thus 
impaired, his mental energies retained their pristine vigour. 
His spirits were elastic ; his good humour was restored. Even 
the vexation consequent upon his recent adventure had vanished 
from his mind; and he could join in the hearty laughter which 
any allusion to it excited in Mr. Wardle, without anger and 
without embarrassment. Nay, more. During the two days 
Mr. Pickwick was confined to his bed , Sam was his constant 
attendant. On the first, he endeavoured to amuse his master by 
anecdote and conversation , on the second Mr. Pickwick de- 
manded his writing-desk , and pen and ink , and was deeply en- 
gaged during the whole day. On the third , being able to sit up 
in his bed-chamber, he despatched his valet witfrta message to 
Mr. Wardle and Mr. Trundle , intimating that if they would 
take their wine there , that evening , they would greatly oblige 
him. The invitation was most willingly accepted ; and when 
they were seated over their wine, Mr. Pickwick, with Sundry 
blushes, produced the following little tale, as having been 
“ edited” by himself, during his recent indisposition , from his 
notes of Mr. Weller’s unsophisticated recital. » • ■ 

“ THE PARISH CLERK — A TALE OF TREE LOVE. 

“ Once upon a time, in a very small country town, at acOh- 
siderable distance from London , there lived a little man named 
Nathaniel Pipkin , who was the parish clerk of the little town , 
and lived in a little house in the little high street , within ten mi- 
nutes’ walk of the little church ; and who was to be found every 
day from nine till four, teaching a little learning to the little boys. 
Nathaniel Pipkin was a harmless, inoffensive, good-natured 
being, with a turned-up nose , and rather turned-in legs, a cast 


Digitized by 


Google 



POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

in his. eye,-anda.halt in his gait; and he divided his time be- 
tween -itibe church" anA his school, verily believing! ‘that there 
existed, not ion the i face of the earth y so clever<a>tnamas.the 
curate j SO . imposing an apartmeufr-as the vestry-room , oCso 
well-ordered a .seminary^ as his-own. Once , ami only once 1 , 'in 
his.dife, Nathaniel i Pipkin had . seen a bishop-*-* pealbishep , 
with, his arms in lawn sleeves; and his head in a wig. He had 
seen him walk panel heard him talk at a confirmation , on which 
momentous oeeasioa Nathaniel Pipkin- was .so 1 overcome with 
reverence and awe, when the aforesaid bishop laid his. hand on 
his head , that he- fainted right dean away, and wasborneoot of 
church in the arms of the beadle. * > • 

“ This was a great event, a tremendous era, in Nathaniel 
Pipkin’s life, and it was about the only one that had ever 
occurred to ruffle the smooth current. of hisqaietexistence , 
when happening one line afternoon , in a .fit of mental abstrac- 
tion, to raise his eyes from -the slate on which he was devising 
some tremendous problem, in compound addition 1 for an offend- 
ing urchin to solve, they suddenly rested .on . the blooming 
countenance of Maria Lobbs, the only daughter ofoldLobbs 
Hie great saddler over the 1 way;. New.,. die -eyes of Mr. Pipkin 
had -rested oft’, the pretty face of Maria Lobbs>«nany a 'time and 
oft 'before,- afc church and’ elsewhere : but the eyes- of Maria 
Lobbs had never looked -so bright, the aheeksfof MtoriaLobbs 
bad never looked so ruddy, as uponthisparticular occasion. 'No 
wondenthen , that Nathaniel Pipkin was unable 'to- take lus eyes 
from the counteiianoe of Miss. Lobbs; no wonder That* Miss 
Lobbs finding -herself stared at by a young man , withdrew her 
head from the window out of which she had been petepmgv and 
shot the casement and pulled down the blind; no' wonder that 
Nathaniel Pipkin , immediately thereafter, fell upon the young 
urchin who had previously offended , and cuffed and knocked 
him to his heart’s content. All this was very natural and there’s 
nothing at all wonderat about it. • . j. 

tit is matter of wonder, though , that any one of Mr. 'Natha- 
niel Pipkin’s retiring disposition , nervous temperament , and 
most particularly > diminutive incomeyshoufflfrom this day forth 
have dared to aspire to the hand and heart of die only -daughter 
of the fiery old Lobbs- — of old. Lobbs- the greatsaddter, who 
could- have bought up the whole village at one strotogof his pen , 
and. nswor -felt the outlay *-» old Lobbs,' who- wad wdbknbwn to 
h&vwheaps of-money /.invested in- the. hank at tbe nearest market 
town who was- reported toJiave countless and kiexhaustible 
treasures , hoarded up indhelittle iron safe with, the bigifeey- 
holey over the chunney-pioeoin the back parlour —and who , it 
was well known, on festive occasions, garnished his board with 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 203 

a real silver tea-pot, cream-ewer, and sugar-basin, which he was 
wont, in the pride of his heart, to boast should be his daughter’s 
property when she found a man to her mind. I repeat it, to be 
matter of profound astonishment and intense wonder, that 
Nathaniel Pipkin should have bad the temerity to cast his eyes 
in this direction.^ But love is blind , and Nathaniel had a cast in 
his eye : and perhaps these two circumstances , taken together, 
prevented his seeing the matter in its proper light. 

“Now, if old Lobbs had entertained the most remote or 
distant idea of the state of the affections of Nathaniel Pipkin , he 
would just have razed the school-room to the ground , or exter- 
minated its master from the surface of the earth, or copmitted 
some other outrage and atrocity of an equally ferocious and 
violent description ; for he was a terrible old fellow, that Lobbs, 
when his pride was injured, or his blood was up. Swear! Such 
trains of oaths would come rolling and pealing over the way, 
sometimes, when he was denouncing the idleness of the bony 
apprentice with the thin legs , that Nathaniel Pipkin would shake 
in his shoes with horror, and the hair of the pupils’ heads would 
stand on end with fright. 

“ Well, day after day, when school was over, and the pupils 
gone, did Nathaniel Pipkin sit himself down at the front window, 
and while he feigned to be reading a book, throw sidelong 
glances over the way in search of the brighteyes of Maria 
Lobbs; and he hadn’t sat there many days, before the bright 
eyes appeared at an upper window, apparently deeply, engaged 
in .reading too. This was delightful , and gladdening to the 
heart of Nathaniel Pipkin. It was something to sit there for 
hours together, and look upon that pretty face when the eyes 
were cast down ; but when Maria Lobbs began to raise ber eyes 
from her book , and dart their rays in the direction of Nathaniel 
Pipkin,, his .delight, and admiration were perfectly boundless. 
At last , one day when he knew old Lobbs wasout, Nathaniel 
Pipkin had the temerity to kiss his hand to Maria. Lobbs; and 
Maria.Lobbs , instead of shutting the window, and pulling down 
the blind , kissed hers to him , and smiled . Upon which , Natha- 
niel Pipkin determined , that , come what might , he would deve- 
lope the state of his feelings, without further delay. 

“ A prettier foot , a gayer heart , a more . dimpled: face , or a 
smarter form, never bounded solightly over .the; earth, they 
graced, as did those of Maria Lobb6, theold saddler’s daughter. 
There, was a roguish twinkle in ber sparkling eyes, that would 
have- made its way to far less susceptible bosoms than that of 
Nathaniel Pipkin; aDd there was, such a. joyous sound in her 
merry laugh, that the sternest misanthrope must have smiled to 
hear it. Even old Lobbs himself, in the very height of his fere- 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



204 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

city, couldn’t resist the coaxing of his pretty daughter ; and 
Wh«*MStoe»; and' dwfr ‘Causin' Kate — an arfch , impudent-looking , 
bewitching little person — made a dead set upon the old man 
together, as f td sky the truth y they very 'often' did, 1 he could 
ha*8>'refdsed 'tlfeln nothinfej' even had 1 they’ asked for a portion 
Of' the CoUntieSs'hhd'inexhdustible treasures , Which werC hidden 
•itotti thedfgbtij M'ttKO ii-oheafe." - 

- 1 : ^Nathahiei' pipklii’s heart beat high Within him , wheh he saW 
this entiBihg little cbojple Some hundred yards before him, one 
suhnhe»»’s> evening j in the' very field in which he had many a 
tioie strolled abotft tifl hight-time , and pondered on the beauty 
of Maria Lbbbs. But though lie had often thought then , how 
, briskly' he would walk up to Maria Lobbs and tell her of his 
passion if he coaid only meet her, he felt , now that she was un- 
expectedly hefhre him, all the blood fn his body moUntihg to 
his face, manifestly to the great detriment 1 of his legs,’ which, 
deprived of their uSnal portion , trembled beneath him. When 
they stopped to gather a hedge-flower, Or listen to ahlfd, Na- 
thaniel Pipkin stopped too, and pretended to be Absorbed in 
meditation, as indeed he really was J , for he waS' thinking what on 
earth he should ever do , when they ttorned back, as theylnevit- 
' aMy must in time, and meet hirtl face to face. Silt though he Was 
afra&dte makeup to them , he'cMldri’t beat tolosesightof them ; 
sowhen they walked faster 'he Walked faster, Whenthey lingcr- 
ed he lingered , and When they stopped he stopped; arid 80‘they 
might have gone oft , till the darkness prevented them , If Kate 
had hot looked silly hack , and encouragingly beckoned Nathaniel 
to advance. 'There was something in Kate's manner that was 
not-WUe resisted , and so Nathaniel Pipkin complied with the 
invitation ; and after a great deal of blushing on his part, and 
immoderate laughter on that of the wicked little CoUSin , Natha- 
niel 'Pipkin Went down on his knees on the dewy grass, arid 
declared his resolution to remain there for ever, unless he was 
permitted to rise the accepted lover of Maria Lobbk. Upon this, 
the merry laughter Of Maria Lobbs rang through the calm evening 
'air —without seething to disturb it , though ; it had such a plea- 
sant sound s tinti the Wicked little fcousih laughed morp' imtflo- 
deraMythanf before,' httd Nathaniel Pipkin blustibd dp%pe£ tHkh 
ever. 'AtlCngth .'Marila Tidbbs heiijg'mofe strfenuj6'usiy Urged by 
the toW-Whm little mkn VmWled^'Way' her hCatl', and' whispered 
hertousiu m ‘say, Or at' all iWeftts Kate did ‘titty, that she Pelt 
much hWmurtd 'hV hfri;Pipkin’s ’addresses; that her hatid and 
heart werte at' her "father's diSpoSat, btit that nOhody chuld he 
insenMhleto^fr.pipkifttSm l erits. 1 'As aft this Was saidwith dibch 
s gravity, 'ahd aSNatlrariier PlpkinWalked home With Maria Lbbbs, 
and struggled for a kt& at parting ,116 went to bed a happy man , 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF TflB WCKWICK ^5 

an<Jdre»^aJJ,^ight tang, of &9jftflniflgj0ta 4fll^S»QF»W9»«i8 
strqng.bo^,,, ^a.rpwjing Maria,. , . ;\\U\ soirt-b*^ 

(l “ The; no$t, 4^,y,, Najtbanipl, Pipkin saw pld J^obfJl gpputitipoa 
b,i§ , pfd grey ppnju apd after a great .many aigfi&i abjtbft. wirafow 
froip;thp.wicta*l littlp, cousin, > tbOfibWC* aud^ntafrof vbirti 
he could by no means understand,.^ biOPg, apprentice (With 
ttie ti^ta l^gs oapje .oflfpj; fo th4„bia piastacivaw’t coming 
homejilj, night, and that the ladie^e* pocited Miy Pipkint te tea , 
atsi^ o’clock, precisely. How the. lessons ,wer§,got through .that 
day,,neither Nathayiel Pipkin nor hispupib, knew, any, more than 
ypu do; but they were got through somehpw, and; afters the 
boys had gone , Nathaniel Pipkin took till full six o’clock to dress 
himself to his satisfaction ; pot that it, took long to. select-the 
garipents lie should wear, inasmuch, as he had no choice: about 
the, piatter, but the putting them on tp.the best advantage y and 
touching them up previously, was a task of .no inconsiderable 

difficulty , or importance. . • , , . r 

“ TpereiWasa very snug little party, consisting of Maria Lobbs 
and, hey cousin ; Kate,. and three, or four romping, good-humour- 
ed, rosy-cheeked girls. NathafiieVPiptafi bed ocular demonstra- 
tion of ffie fact , that .eyen tpe^uptoers of flld Lobbs’s taeaswes 
wpce pqI exaggerated*, Xhe^e yyere.tbe real solid silver teapot, 
Cfea(p-e\yer, and sugar ■> basin,, op the table, apd real , silver 
spoons to. stir, the, tea with ,, and real, china cups to drink itnout 


of, and Ptates of the same, to hold the cakes and toast in^The 
only CTe^ore in the whole place; was anothpr cousin ,pf Maria 
LohVs , .and brother 'of Kate, whom Maria 1 Lobbs called 
‘Henry,,’ and who seemed to keep Maria Lobbs all to. himself) 
up in ope corner of the table. It’s a delightful thing, to see affeth 
tiop in fapnlies , hut it may be carried rafhec too far, and Nath*? 
niesl Pipkin could not help thinking that Maria Lobbs .must he 
very particularly fond, of her relations , if she paid os much attenn 
hop, to all. of them as to this individual, cousin., A/ter tea,too> 

y^be,p. the. w>cked little cousip. proposed 3 , 'g3fnC-* t bliodiJ9W»l9 

bijff,, ft admehow orpUier happened, tb# Pipkin. wss* 

nemy^ays'bjjpd^and whenever 

m^^mun^ bo was sure to find tl}$ M;ria,Lftbl?S)W»s JM* fcr 
off:, $od .]bo,ugb, tbe wicked little .eppsin.^nd ,tbd, other girls 

P$sMft 9% ,snjd ;; puiiedi^.bair,,afidt puabed waus in his, wan* 
W %« a Jwbfi? $e e fi»cd I to wmjwf 

■W«® ?<WWufiW!W ifeM» 

*^^Je Mw.tbc sound 013 ki§a. fpUpw,ed b* a faiflt renion- 
shl^fr^MariaXphhs, gpd a.fwlfrsnppre^d^ughfipjnber 
Ups friends., All this \y,as odd— wry p,ddrnr*nd dbere iis po 
saying what Nathaniel Pipkin might or might not have done , 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



206 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

in consequence, if his thoughts had not been suddenly directed 
into a new ct^nnel. 

• “ The circumstance which directed his thoughts into a new 
channel was a loud knocking at the street-door, and the person 
who made this loud knocking at the street-door, was no other 
than old Lobbs himself, who had unexpectedly returned, and 
was hammering away, like a coffin-maker : for he wanted his 
supper. The alarming intelligence was no sooner communicated 
by the bony apprentice with the thin legs, than the girls tripped 
up stairs to Maria Lobbs’s bed-room , and the male cousin and 
Nathaniel Pipkin were thrust into a couple of closets in the 
sitting-room , for want of any better places of concealment 5 and 
when Maria Lobbs and the wicked little cousin had stowed 
them away, and put the room to rights , they opened the street- 
door to old Lobbs, who had never left off knocking since he 
first began. 

“ Now it did unfortunately happen that old Lobbs being very 
hungry was monstrous cross. Nathaniel Pipkin could hear him 
growling away like an old mastiff with a sore throat; and 
whenever the unfortunate apprentice with the thin legs came into 
the room , so surely did old Lobbs commence swearing at him in 
a most Saracenic and ferocious manner, though apparently with 
no other end or object than that of easing his bosom by the 
discharge of a few superfluous oaths. At length some supper, 
which had been warming up , was placed on the table , and then 
old Lobbs fell to , in regular style ; and , having made clear work 
of it in no time , kissed his daughter, and demanded his pipe. - 

“ Nature had placed Nathaniel Pipkin’s knees in very close 
juxtaposition; but when he heard old Lobbs demand his pipe, 
they knocked together, as if they were going to reduce each 
other to powder : for, depending from a couple of hooks, in the 
very closet. in which he stood, was a large brown-stemmed, 
silver-bowled pipe , which pipe he himself had seen in the mouth 
Of old Lobbs , regularly every afternoon and evening , for the last 
'five years. The two girls went down stairs for the pipe , and up 
stairs for the pipe , and everywhere but where they knew the 
pipe was , and did Lobbs stormed away meanwhile, in the most 
wonderful manner. At last he thought of the closet , and walked 
up to it. It was of no use a little man like Nathaniel Pipkin 
pulling the door inwards , when a great Strong fellow like old 
Lobbs was pulling it outwards. Old Lobbs just gave it one tug , 
and open it Qew, disclosing Nathaniel Pipkin standing bolt 
upright inside, and shaking with apprehension from head to 
foot. Bless us ! what an appalling look old Lobbs gave him , as 
he dragged him out by the collar, and held him at arm’s length ! 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. Sf07 

“ ‘ Why, what the devil do you want here?' said old Lobbs, 
in a fearful voice. 

“ Nathaniel Pipkin could make no reply, .so oldLobbs shook 
him backwards and forwards , for two, or three minutes , by way 
of arranging his ideas for him. , , . 

“ ‘ What do you want here?’ roared Lobbq; ‘ I.supposeyoa 
have come after my daughter,' now.’ i 

“ Old Lobbs merely said this as a sneer -. .for he did not believe 
that mortal presumption could have carried Nathaniel Pipkin so 
far. What was his indignation , when that poor man replied— 

■ “ ‘ Yes, I did, Mr. Lobbs— I did come after your daughter. 

I love her, Mr. Lobbs.’ 

“ ‘ Why, you snivelling , wry-faced little villain ,’ gasped old 
Lobbs, paralysed at the atrocious confession; ‘what do you 
mean by that? Say this to my face ! Damme , I’ll throttle you.’ 

“ It is by no means improbable that old Lobbs would have 
carried this threat into execution, in the excess of his rage, if 
his arm had not been stayed by a very unexpected apparition , 
to wit } the male, cousin , who , stepping out of his closet, and 
walking up to old Lobbs , said — 

“ ‘I cannot allow this harmless person , sir, who has been 
asked here. Income .girlish frolic, to take upon himself, in a 
very noble manner, the .fault (if fault it is ) which I am guilty of , 
and am ready to avowt I love your daughter, sir ; and / came 
here for the purpose of meeting her. ’ 

“ Old Lobbs opened his eyes very wide at this , but not wider 
than Nathaniel Pipkin. 

“ ‘ You did?’ said Lobbs , at last finding breath to speak/ 

“ .‘.Ldid.fi . : , ! 

“ ‘ And I forbade you this house , long ago.’ 

• “ ‘ You did , or I should not have been here , clandestinely, 
lornigbL”. . 

■ “ lam 6Qrryto reoord it , of old Lobbs, but I think he would 
have struck the cousin, if his pretty daughter, with her bright 
eyes swimming in tears, had not clung to his arm. 

‘Dop’t stopbim, Maria,’ said the young man : ‘if he has 
tbft.wilLto. stroke me , let himi I would not hprt a hair of his 
grey I>ead , fanlhe riches of the world.’ t • 

■ tf/ffhe old man cast down his eyes at this reproof, and they 
met those- of his daughter. I have hinted once or twice before, 
that they were very .bright eyes , and, though they were tearful 
now,, their influence was by no means lessened. Old Lobbs 
tumed.hisfcead awayy as if to avoid being persuaded by them , 
when, as fortune would have it , he encountered the face of the 
kicked little cousin , who , half afraid for her brother, and half 
laughing at Nathaniel Pipkin , presented as bewitching an expres- 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



208 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

sion of countenance, with a touch o^sliness in it too, as any 
man , old or young , need look upon. She drew her arm coaxingly 
through the old man’s , and whispered something in his ear; and 
do what he would , old Lobbs couldn't help breaking out into a 
smile, while a tear stole down his cheek, at the same time. 

“ Five minutes after this , the girls were brought down from 
the bed-room with a great deal of giggling and modesty ; and 
while the young people were making themselves perfectly happy, 
old Lobbs got down the pipe , and smoked it : and it was a re- 
markable circumstance about that particular pipe of tobacco , 
that it was the most soothing and lightful one he ever smoked. . 

“ Nathaniel Pipkin thought it hest to keep his own counsel , 
and by so doing gradually rose into high favour with old Lobbs , 
who taught him to smoke in time ; and they used to sit out in the 
garden on the fine evenings , for many years afterwards , smoking 
and drinking in great state. He soon recovered the effects of his 
attachment, for we find his name in the parish register, as a 
witness to the marriage of Maria Lobbs to her cousin ; and it also 
appears , by reference to other documents , that on the night of 
the wedding , he was incarcerated in the village cage , for having , 
in a state of extreme intoxication , committed sundry excesses 
in the streets , in all of which he was aided and abetted hy the 
bony apprentice with the thin legs.” 


CHAPTER XIX. 

BRIEFLY ILLUSTRATIVE OF TWO POINTS'. — FIRST, THE POWER OF HYSTERICS , AND, 
SECONDLY, THE FORCE OF CIRCUMSTANCES. 

For two days after the dejeune at Mrs. Hunter’s , the Pick- 
wickians remained at Eatanswill, anxiously awaiting the arrival 
of some intelligence from their revered leader. Mr. Tupman and 
Mr. Snodgrass were once again left to their own means of 
amusement ; for Mr. Winkle, in compliance with a most pressing 
invitation, continued to reside at Mr. Pott’s house, and to de- 
vote his time to the companionship of his amiable lady. Nor was 
the occasional society of Mr. Pott himself wanting to complete 
their felicity. Deeply immersed in the intensity of his specula- 
tions for the public weal', and the destruction of the Indepen- 
dent, it was not the habit of that great man to descend from his 
mental pinnacle to the humble level of ordinary minds. On this 
occasion , however, and as if expressly in compliment to any 
follower of Mr. Pickwick’s , he unbent, relaxed , stepped down 
from his pedestal, and walked upon the ground : benignly adapt- 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 209 

ing his remarks to the comprehension of the herd , and seeming 
in outward form , if not in spirit , to be one of them. 

Such having been the demeanour of this celebrated public 
character towards Mr. Winkle , it will be readily imagined that 
considerable surprise was depicted on the countenance of the 
latter gentleman, when as he was sitting aione in the breakfast- 
room, the door was hastily thrown open , and as hastily closed, 
on the entrance of Mr. Pott, who, stalking majestically towards 
him and thrusting aside his proffered hand , ground his teeth , as if 
to put a sharper edge on what he was about to utter, and ex- 
claimed, in a saw-like voice, — 

“ Serpent ! ” 

“ Sir ! ” exclaimed Mr. Winkle , starting from his chair. 

“ Serpent, sir,” repeated Mr. Pott ‘raising his voice, and then 
suddenly depressing it : “ 1 said, Serpent , sir — make the most 
of it.” 

Now when you have parted with a man , at two o’clock in 
the morning, on terms of the htmost good fellowship , and he 
meets you again, at half-past nine, and greets you as a serpent, 
it is not unreasonable to conclude that something of an unplea- 
sant nature has occurred meanwhile. So Mr. Winkle thought. 
He returned Mr. Pott’s gaje of stone , and in compliance with 
that gentleman’s request , proceeded to make the most he could 
of the “ serpent.” The most , however, was just nothing at all ' 
so, after a profound silence of some minutes’ duration, he 
said,— >■ ■ 

“ Serpent, sir! Serpent , Mr. Pott ! What can you mean, sir ? 
— this is pleasantry.” 

“Pleasantry, sir!” exclaimed Pott, with a motion of the 
hand , indicative of a strong desire to hurl the Britannia metal 
tea-pot at the head of his visiter. “ Pleasantry, sir! — — but no, 
I will be calm ; I will be calm, sir ; ” and in proof of his calmness, 
Mr. Pott flung himself into a ohair, and foamed at the mouth. 
“ My dear sir,” interposed Mr. Winkle. 

“ Dear sir!” replied Pott. “ How dare you address me, as 
dear sir^ sir ? How dare you look me in the face and do it?” 

“WeU,sir, if you come to that,” responded Mr. Winkle, 
“ how dare you look me in the face , and call me a serpent , sir ? ” 
“ Because you are one,” replied Mr. Pott. 

“ Prove it, sir,” said Mr. Winkle, warmly. “ Prove it.” 

A malignant scowl passed over the profound face of the edi- 
tor, as he drew from his pocket the Independent of that morn- 
ing; and laying his finger on a particular paragraph , threw; the 
journal across the table to Mr. Winkle. ["]' ' ’ 

That gentleman took it up , and read as follows V— " b 
“Our obscure and filthy contemporary/in some disgusting 
i. 14 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



210 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

observations on the recent election for this borough , has pre- 
sumed to violate the hallowed sanctity of private life , and to 
refer, in a manner not to be misunderstood , to the personal 
affairs of our late candidate — aye, and notwithstanding his base 
defeat , we will add , our future member, Mr. Fizkin. What 
does our dastardly contemporary mean ? What would the ruffian 
say, if we , setting at naught, like him , the decencies of social 
intercourse , were to raise the curtain which happily conceals 
his private life from general ridicule , not to say from general 
execration? What, if we were even to point out, andcommenton, 
facts and circumstances which are publicly notorious, and beheld 
by every one, but our mole-eyed contemporary — what if we 
were to print the following effusion, which we received while 
we were writing the commencement of this article , from a ta- 
lented fellow-townsman and correspondent : — 

“‘lines to a brass pot. 

‘“Oh, Pott ! If you’d known 
How false she’d have grown , 

When you heard the marriage bells tinkle ; 

You'd have done then , I vow , 

What you cannot help now , 

And handed her over to W * * * * V ” 

“What,” said Mr. Pott, solemnly — “what rhymes to 
‘ tinkle,’ villain?” 

“ What rhymes to tinkle?” said Mrs. Pott , whose entrance 
at the moment forestalled the reply. “ What rhymes to tinkle? 
Why, Winkle, I should conceive : ” and saying this , Mrs. Pott 
smiled sweetly on the disturbed Pickwickian, and extended her 
hand towards him. The agitated young man would have accept- 
ed it , in his confusion , had not Pott indignantly interposed. 

“Back, ma’am — back,” said the editor. “Take his hand 
before my very face ! ” 

“ Mr. P. ! ” said his astonished lady. 

“ Wretched woman , look here,” exclaimed the husband. 
“ Look here , ma’am — * Lines to a brass Pot,’ ma’am- ‘ Brass 
pot ; , — that’s me, ma’am. * False she’ A have grown ; ’ — that’s 
you, ma’am — you.” With this ebullition of rage, which was 
not unaccompanied with something like a tremble , at the ex- 
pression of his wife’s face , Mr. Pott dashed the current number 
of the Eatanswill Independent at her feet. 

“ Upon my word , sir ,” said the astonished Mrs. Pott , stoop- 
ing to pick up the paper. “ Upon my word, sir.” 

Mr. Pott winced beneath the contemptuous gaze of his wife. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 211 

He had made a desperate struggle to screw up his courage, but 
it was fast coming unscrewed again. 

There appears nothing very tremendous in this little sentence, 
“Upon my word , sir,” when it comes to be read , but the tone 
of voice in which it was delivered , and the look that accom- 
panied it , both seeming to bear reference to some revenge to be 
thereafter wreaked upon the head of Pott , produced their full 
effect upon him. The most unskilful observer could have detect- 
ed in his troubled countenance , a readiness to resign his Wel- 
lington boots to any efficient substitute who would have con- 
sented to stand in them at that moment. 

Mrs. Pott read the paragraph, uttered a loud shriek, and 
threw herself at fall length on the hearth-rug, screaming , and 
tapping it with the heels of her shoes , in a manner which could 
leave no doubt of the propriety of her feelings on the occasion. 

“ My dear,” said the terriGed Pott , — “I did’nt say I believed 

it*, — I ” but the unfortunate man’s voice was drowned in 

the screaming of his partner. , 

“ Mrs. Bott , let me entreat you , my dear ma’am , to compose 
yourself,” said Mr. Winkle ; but the shrieks and tappings were 
louder, and more frequent , than ever. 

“My dear,” said Mr. Pott, “I am very sorry. If you won’t 
consider your own health , consider me , my dear. We shall 
have a crowd round the house.” But the more'strenuously Mr. 
Pott entreated , the more vehemently the screams poured forth. 

Very fortunately, however, attached to Mrs. Pott’s person was 
a body-guard of one , a young lady whose ostensible employment 
was to preside over her toilet , but who rendered herself useful 
in a variety of ways , and in none more so than in the particular < 
department of constantly aiding and abetting her mistress in ) 
every wish and inclination opposed to the desires of the unhappy j 
Pott. The screams reached this young lady’s ears in due course, 
and brought her to the room with a speed which threatened to 
derange materially the very exquisite arrangement of her cap 
and ringlets. 

“ Oh , my dear, dear mistress ! ” exclaimed the body-guard , 
kneeling frantically by the side of the prostrate Mrs. Pott. “Oh, 
my dear mistress , what is the matter ? ” 

“ Your master — your brutal master,” murmured the patient. 

Pott was evidently giving way. 

‘ ‘ It’s a shame ,” said the body-guard , reproachfully. “ I 
know he’ll be the death on you , ma’am. Poor dear thing. ” 

He gave way more. The opposite party followed up the 
attack. 

“Oh don’t leave me — don’t leave, Goodwin,” murmured 
Mrs. Pott, clutching at the* wrists of the said Goodwin with an 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



212 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

hysteric jerk. “You’re the only person that’s kind to me, 

Goodwin.” 

At'this affecting appeal , Goodwin got up a little domestic tra- 
gedy of her own , and shed tears copiously. 

“Never, ma’am— never,” said Goodwin. “ Oh, sir, you 
should be careful— you should indeed; you don’t know what 
harm you may do missis ; you’ll be sorry for it one day, I know 
— I’ve always said so.” 

The unlucky Pott looked timidly on , but said nothing. 

“ Goodwin ,” said Mrs. Pott , in a soft voice. 

“ Ma’am,” said Goodwin. 

“ If you only knew how I have loved that man — — ” , 

“ Don’t distress yourself by recollecting it, ma’am ,” said the 
body-guard. 

Pott looked very frightened. It was time for a clencher. 

“And now,” sobbed Mrs. Pott — “now, after all, to be 
treated in this way ; to be reproached and insulted in' the pre- 
sence of a third party, and that party almost a slraqger. But I 
will not submit to it , Goodwin ,” continued Mrs. Pott, raising 
herself, in the arms of her attendant. “My brother,- the lieu- 
tenant, shall interfere. I’ll be separated , Goodwin.” 

“ It would certainly serve him right, ma’am ,” said Goodwin. 

Whatever thoughts the threat of a separation might haye 
awakened in Mr. Pott’s mind , he forbore to give utterance to 
them , and contented himself by saying , with great humility, — 

“My dear, will you hear me?” 

A fresh train of sobs was the only reply, as Mrs. Pott grew 
more hysterical, requested to be informed why she was ever 
born, and required sundry other pieces of information of a si- 
milar description. 

“ My dear,” remonstrated Mr. Pott , “ do not give way to 
these sensitive feelings. I never believed that the paragraph bad 
any foundation , my dear — impossible. I was only angry, my 
dear — I may say outrageous — with the Independent people for 
daring to insert it; that’s all.” And Mr. Pott cast an imploring 
look at the innocent cause of the mischief, as if to entreat him 
to say nothing about the serpent. 

“ And what steps, 1 sir; doyou mean to take to obtain redress?” 
inquired Mr. Winkle , gaining courage as he saw Pott losing it. 

“ Oh, Goodwin /’ observed (Mrs;- Pott, “does he mean to 
horsewhip the editoU of the Independent — does he , Goodwin ?” 

“ Hush , hush , ma’am , pray keep yourself quiet ,” replied the 
body-guard. “ I dare say he will , if you wish it , ma’am.” 

“ Certainly,” sait Pott , as his wife evinced decided symptoms 
of going off again — “of course I shall.” 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 213 

“ When , Goodwin — when ? ” said Mrs. Pott , still undecided 
about the going off. 

“Immediately, of course,” said Mr. Pott; “before the day 
is out.” 

“ Oh , Goodwin ,” resumed Mrs. Pott , “ it’s the only way of 
meeting the slander, and setting me right with the world. 

“ Certainly, ma'am,” replied Goodwin. “ No man as is a man, 
ma’am, could refuse to do it.” 

So as the hysterics were still hovering about , Mr. Pott said 
once more, that he would do it ; but Mrs. Pott was so overcome 
at the bare idea of having ever been suspected , that she was 
half-a-dozen times on the very verge of a relapse , and most 
unquestionably would have gone off, had it not been for the 
indefatigable efforts of the assiduous Goodwin , and repeated 
entreaties for pardon from the conquered Pott : and finally, 
when that unhappy individual had been frightened and snubbed 
down to his proper level , Mrs. Pott recovered , and they went 
to breakfast. 

“You will not allow this base newspaper slander to shorten 
your stay here, Mr. Winkle ?” said Mrs. Pott , smiling through 
the traces of her tears. 

“ I hope not,” said Mr. Pott , actuated , as he spoke , by an 
internal wish that his visiter would choke himself with the morsel 
of dry toast which he was” raising to his lips at the moment , and 
so terminate his stay effectually. . • • 

“I hope not.” 

“ You are very good ,” said Mr. Winkle ; “ but a letter has 
been received from Mr. Pickwick — so I learn by a note from 
Mr. Tupman, which was brought up to my bed-room door, this 
morning — in which he requests us to join him at Bury to-day ; 
and we are to leave by the coach at noon.” 

“ But you will come back ? ” said Mrs. Pott. 

“Oh, certainly,” replied Mr. Winkle. 

“ You are quite sure?” said Mrs. Pott, stealing a tender look 
at her visiter. 

“ Quite,” responded Mr. Winkle. 

The breakfast passed off in silence , for each member of the 
party was brooding over his , or her, own personal grievances. 
Mrs. Pott was regretting the loss of a beau ; Mr. Pott his rash 
pledge to horsewhip the Independent ; and Mr. Winkle his hav- 
ing placed himself in so awkward a situation. Noon approached, 
and after many adieux and promises to return, he tore himself • 
away. 

“ If he ever comes back, I’ll poison him ,” thought Mr. Pott, 
as he turned into the little back office where he prepared his 
thunderbolts. 


Digitized by 


Google 



214 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ If I ever do come back , and mix myself up with these 
people again ,” thought Mr. Winkle , as he wended his way to 
the Peacock, “I shall deserve to be horsewhipped myself— 
that’s all.” 

His friends were ready, the coach was nearly so , and in half 
an hour they were proceeding on their journey, along the road 
over which Mr. Pickwick and Sam had so recently travelled , 
and of which , as we have already said something , we do not 
feel called upon to extract Mr. Snodgrass’s poetical and beautiful 
description. 

Mr. Weller was standing at the door of the Ange), ready to 
receive them , and by that gentleman they were ushered to the 
apartment of Mr. Pickwick , where , to the no small surprise of 
Mr. Winkle and Mr. Snodgrass , and the no small embarrass- 
ment of Mr. Tupman, they found old Wardle and Trundle. 

“ How are you?” said the old man, grasping Mr. Tupman’s 
hand. “ Don’t hang back, or look sentimental about it ; it can’t 
be helped , old fellow. For her sake, I wish you’d had her ; for 
your own, I’m very glad you have not. A young fellow like you 
will do better one of these days — eh?” With this consolation , 
old Wardle slapped Mr. Tupman on the back , and laughed 
heartily. 

“ Well, and how are you, my fine fellows?” said the old 
gentleman, shaking hands with Mr. Winkle and Mr. Snodgrass 
at the same time. “ I have just been telling Pickwick that we 
must have you all down at Christmas. We’re going to have a 
wedding — a real wedding this time.” 

“ A wedding ! ” exclaimed Mr. Snodgrass , turning very pale; 

“ Yes, a wedding. But don’t be frightened ,” said the good- 
humoured old man; “ it’s only Trundle there, and Bella,” 

“ Oh, is that all?” said Mr. Snodgrass, relieved from a painful 
doubt which had fallen heavily on his breast. “ Give you joy, 
sir. How is Joe?” 

“ Oh , he;— very well ,” replied the old gentleman. “ Sleepy 
as ever.” 

“ And your mother, and the clergyman, and all of ’em ? ” 

“ Quite well.” 

“ Where,” said Mr. Tupman, with an effort — “ where is — 
she, sir ? ” and he turned away his head and covered his eyes 
with his hand. 

“ She ! ” said the old gentleman with a knowing shake of the 
head. “ Do you mean my single relative— eh ? ” 

Mr. Tupman , by a nod , intimated that his question applied 
to the disappointed Rachael. 

“ Oh , she’s gone away,” said the old gentleman. “ She’s 
living at a relation’s , far enough off. She couldn’t bear to see 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. StlA 

the girls, so I let her go. But come , here’s the dinner. You 
must be hungry after your ride. I am , without any ride at all ; 
so letus fall toA 

Ample justice was done to the meal •, and when they were 
seated round the table, after it had been disposed of, Mr. 
Pickwick , to the intense horror and indignation of his followers, 
related the adventure he had undergone , and the success which 
had attended the base artifices of the diabolical Jingle. 

‘‘ And the attack of rheumatism which I caught in that gar- 
den ,” said Mr. Pickwick , in conclusion , “ renders me lame at 
this moment.’’ 

“I, too, have had something Of an adventure,” said Mr. 
Winkle , with a smile 5 and at the request of Mr. Pickwick , he 
detailed the malicious libel of the Ealanswill Independent , and 
the consequent excitement of their friend , the editor. 

Mr. Pickwick’s brow darkened, during the recital. His friends 
observed it , and, when Mr. Winkle had concluded, maintained 
a profound silence. Mr. Pickwick struck the table emphatically 
with his clenched fist , and spoke as follows : — 

“Is it not a wonderful circumstance,” said Mr. Pickwick, 
“ that we seem destined to enter no man’s house , without in- 
volving him in some degree of trouble? Does it not, I ask, 
bespeak the indiscretion , or, worse than that , the blackness of 
heart — that I should say so ! — of my followers , that, beneath 
whatever roof they locate , they disturb the peace of mind and 
happiness of some confiding female ? Is it not , I say ” 

Mr, Pickwick would in all probability have gone on for some 
time, had not the entrance of Sam, with a letter, caused him to 
break off in his eloquent discourse. He passed his handkerchief 
across his forehead , took off his spectacles , wiped them , and 
put them on again ; and his voice had recovered its wonted 
softness of tone , when he said , — 

“ What have you there , Sam ? ” 

“ Called at the Post-office just now, and found this here letter, 
as has laid there for two days ,” replied Mr. Weller. “ It’s sealed 
vith a vafer, and directed in round hand.” 

“ I don’t know this hand,” said Mr. Pickwick, opening the 
letter. “ Mercy on us ! what’s this? It must be a jest; it — it 
can’t be true.” " ' 

“ What’s the matter ?” was the general inquiry. 

“Nobody dead, is there?” 1 said Wardle, alarmed at the 
horror in Mr. Pickwick's countenance. 

Mr. Pickwick made no reply, but , pushing the letter across 
the table, and desiring Mr. Tupmah to read it aloud, fell back 
in his chair with a look of vacant astonishment qui£$ alarming to 
behold. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



216 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

Mr. Tupman, with $ trembling voice, read the letter, of which 
the following is a copy : — 

SttUKKWH b Qcwrbj Qctd’M, f 483c. 

( \Sbcuiu)e$ acjctUid t $!ukwlck. 

Svc f 


^<UH4Uj| Spa* hibtx, udeb Sy 3TC lb. DlLcutda, ( \Shcucde$ f to 

commence at* action cujccutdb yoa f ^ot a Stead op p tom Lie op luaxtlcuje , 
pot did tie p la.iuhff layb Set Damage* ak pj^een Suudted poimeh , <pe £aj 
to tupotti* you ticut cl qpui £a4 Seetv iMiied against tj*>u w* did bu *1, m tSe 
op CotmiUHi 5 PK«x 4; am) tecjiuol to know t Sy tefaiti* op po*t, tSo 
Ifomie op yowt attorney in j^oudou, do accept devotee tSeteop. 

ate, Sit, 

cTout o(m)i«nt bewcuuto , 

(DotWn am) c^ogg. 

mcv. s aAuuefl, Pickwick. 


There was something so impressive in the mute astonishment 
with which each man regarded his neighbour, and every man 
regarded Mr. Pickwick , that all seemed afraid to speak. The 
silence was at length broken by Mr. Tupman 

“ Dodson and Fogg,” he repeated mechanically. 

4 ‘ Bardell and Pickwick ,” said Mr. Snodgrass , musing. 

“ Peace of mind and happiness of confiding females mur- 
mured Mr. Winkle, with an air of abstraction. 

“ It’s a conspiracy,” said Mr. Pickwick , at length recovering 
the power of speech 5 — “a base conspiracy between these two 
grasping attorneys, Dodson and Fogg. Mrs. Bardell would never 
do it ; — she hasn’t the heart to do it ; —she hasn’t the case to do 
it. Ridiculous — ridiculous. ” 

“Of her heart,” said Wardle, with a smile, “you should 
certainly be the best judge. I don’t wish to discourage you , but 
I should certainly say that, of her case , Dodson and Fogg are 
far better judges than any of us can be.” 

“ It’s a vile attempt to extort money,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ I hope it is ,’’ said Wardle , with a short , dry cough. 

‘ ‘ Who ever heard me address her in any way but that in which 
a lodger would address his landlady?” continued Mr. Pickwick, 


Die ' :ed by 


Goc 2 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 217 

with great vehemence. “ Who ever saw me with her? Not 
even my friends here — 

“ Except on one occasion,” said Mr. Tupman. 

Mr. Pickwick changed colour. 

“ Ah,” said Wardle. “Well , that’s impbrtant. There was 
nothing suspicious then , I suppose ?” 

Mr. Tupman glanced timidly at his leader. “ Why,” he said, 
“ there was nothing suspicious : but— I don’t know how it 
happened ! mind — she certainly was reclining in his arms. ” 

“ Gracious powers ! ” ejaculated Mr. Pickwick, as the recollec- 
tion of the scene in question struck forcibly upon him ; — “ what 
a dreadful instance of the force of circumstances ! So she was — 
so she was.” 

“ And our friend was soothing her anguish,” said Mr. Winkle, 
rather maliciously. 

“ So I was,” said Mr. Pickwick. “I won’t deny it. Solwas.” 

“ Hallo ! ” said Wardle; “ for a case in which there’s nothing 
suspicious, this looks rather queer— eh , Pickwick — eh? Ah, sly 
dog — sly dog ! ” and he laughed till the glasses on the side-board 
rang again. 

“ What a dreadful conjunction of appearances'! ” exclaimed 
Mr. Pickwick, resting his chin upon his hands. “Winkle — 
Tupman — I beg your pardon for the observations I made just 
now. We are all the victims of circumstances, and I the greatest.” 
With this apology Mr. Pickwick buried his head in his hands, 
and ruminated ; while Wardle measured out a regular circle of 
nods and winks, addressed to the other members of the company. 

“ I’ll have it explained , though ,” said Mr. Pickwick, raising 
his head , and hammering the table. I’ll see this Dodson and 
Fogg. 1’U go to London to-morrow.” 

“ Not to-morrow,” said Wardle ; “ you’re too lame.” 

“ Well then , next day.” 

“ Next day is the first of September, and you’re pledged to 
ride out with us, as far as Sir Geoffrey Manning’s grounds, at 
all events, and to fftet us at lunch , if you don’t take the field.” 

“ Well then, the day after,” said Mr. Pickwick ; “ Thursday. 
— Sam.” 

“ Sir,” replied Mr. Weller. 

“ Take two places outside to London , on Thursday morning, 
for yourself and me.” 

“ Wery well , sir.” 

Mr. Weller left the room , and departed slowly on his errand , 
with his hands in his pocket , and his eyes fixed on the ground. 

. “Rum feller, the hemperor,” said Mr. Weller, as he walked 
slowly up the street. “ Think o’ his makin’ up to that ere Mrs. 
Bardell — vith a little boy, too ! Always the vay vith these here 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



218 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

?*? ’“^^ws’eyer, as is such steady goers to look at. I did’nt 
Uunki taid ha done it , though — I didn’t think he’d ha’ done it.’? 
And moralising m this s train , Mr. Samuel Weller bent his steps 
towards thebookiag-offieec 


CHAPTER XX. 

A PLEASANT DAY , WITH AN UNPLEASANT TERMINATION. 

The birds , who , happily for their own peace of mind , and 
personal comfort, were in blissful ignorance of the preparations 
which had been making to astonish them , on the first ofSeptem- 
ber, hailed it, no doubt, as one of the pleasantest mornings they 
had seen that season. Many a young partridge who strutted 
complacently among the stubble , with all the finicking coxcom- 
bry of youth , and many an older one who watched his levity 
out of his little round eye , with the contemptuous air of a bird 
of wisdom and experience , alike unconscious of their approach- 
ing doom, basked in the fresh intoning air with lively and 
blithesome feelings , and a few hours afterwards were laid low 
upon the earth. But we grow affecting : let' us proceed. 

In plain common-place matter-of-faot ; then , it was a fine 
morning — so fine that you would scarcely have believed that 
the few months of an English summer had yet flown by. Hedges, 
fields, and trees, hill and moorland , presented to' the eye their 
ever^varying shades bf deep rich green ; scarce a leaf had fallen , 
scarce a sprinkle of yellow mingled with the hues of summer^ 
warned you that autumn had begun. The sky was cloudless *, the 
sun shone out bright and warm 5 the songs of birds, and hum of 
myriads of summer insects , filled the air ; and the cQttage gar- 
dens, crowded with flowers of every rich and beautiful tint, 
sparkled in the heavy dew, like beds of glitt&tng jewels. Every- 
thing bore the stamp of summer, and none <^ts beautiful colours 
had yet faded from the die. 

Such was the morning , when an open carriage , in which 
were three - Pickwickians, (Mr. Snodgrass having preferred to 
remain at home,) Mr. Wardle, and Mr. Trundle, with Sam 
Weller on the box beside the driver, pulled up by a gate at the 
road-side , before which stood a tall , raw-boned gamekeeper, 
and a half-booted, leather-leggined boy : each bearing a bag of 
capacious dimensions , atid 'accompanied by a brace of pointers. 

“ I say,” whispered Mr. 1 WifaUe to Wardle , as the man let 
down the steps, “ they don’f'BUppose we’re going to kill game 
enough to fill those bags , do they ? ” 


Digitized by uooQ le 



OF THE PICKWICK CIJOB. 2l9 

- “ Fill them ! ” exolaimed old Wardle. “ Bless you , yes ! You 
shall All one , and I the other ; and when we’ve done with them ; , 
the pockets of our shooting-jackets will hold as much more.” 

Mr. Winkle dismounted without saying anything in reply to 
this observation ; but he thought within himself, that if the party 
remained in the open air, till he had filled one of the bags , they 
stood a considerable chance of catching tolerable colds in the head . 

“ Hi , Juno, lass— hi , old girl ; down , Daph , down ,” said 
Wardle , caressing the dogs. “ Sir Geoffrey still in Scotland, of 
course, Martin?” 

The tall gamekeeper replied in the affirmative, and looked with 
some surprise from Mr. Winkle , who was holding his gun as if 
he wished his coat-pocket to save him the trouble of pulling the 
trigger, to Mr. Tupman , who was holdingrliis , as if he were 
afraid of it — as there is no earthly reason to doubt that he 
really was. 

“My friends are not much in the way of this sort of thing yet , 
Martin ,” said Wardle , noticing the look. “ Live and learn , you 
know. They’ll be good shots onfe of these days. I beg my friend 
Winkle’s pardon , though; he has had some practice.” 

Mr. Winkle smiled feebly over his blue neckerchief in acknow- 
ledgment of the compliment , and got himself so mysteriously en- 
tangled with his gun , in his modest confusion , that if the piece 
had been loaded , he must inevitably have shot himself dead upon 
thespot. 

“ You mustn’t handle your piece in that ere way, when you 
come to have the charge in it, sir,” said the tall gamekeeper 
gruffly, “ or I’m damned if you won’t make cold meat of some 
on us.” . 

Mr. Winkle , thus admonished , abruptly altered its position, 
and in so doing , contrived to bring the barrel into pretty smart 
contact with Mr. Weller’s head. 

“ Hallo ! ” said Sam , picking up his hat , which had been 
knocked off, and rubbing his temple. “ Hallo, sir! if you comes 
it this vay, you’ll fill one o’ them bags , and something to spare , 
atone fire.” 

Here the leather-leggined boy laughed very heartily, and then 
tried to. look as if it was somebody else , whereat Mr. Winkle 
frowned majestically. 

“ Where did you tell the boy to meet us with the snack , Mar- 
tin?” inquired Wardle. 

“ Side of One-tree Hill , at twelve o’ clock , sir.” 

“ That’s not Sir Geoffrey’s land , is it? ” • • 

“ No , sir ; but it’s close by it. It’s Gaptain Boldwig’s land ; 
but. there’ll be nobody to interrupt us , and there’s a fine bit of 
turf there.” 


Digitized by 


Google 


220 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ Verywell/’, said old Wardle. Now the sooner we’re off 
the better. Will you join us at twelve , then , Pickwick ? ” 

My. Pickwick was particularly desirous to view the sport, the 
more especially as he was rather anxious in respect of Mr. 
Winkle’s life and limbs. On so inviting a morning, too, it was 
very tantalising to turn back , and leave his friends to enjoy 
thenisej.v^Sf It ,was , therefore , with a very rueful air that he re- 
plied,— 

“ Why, I suppose I must.” 

“ An’t tjje goptlejnan a shot, sir?” inquired the long game- 
keeper. 

“ No /’ replied Wardle ; “ and he’s lame besides.” 

“ I should very much like to go” said Mr. Pickwick — “ very 
much.” . 

There was a short pause of commiseration. 

“ There’s a barrow t’other side the hedge ,” said the boy. “ If 
the gentleman’s servant would wheel along die paths, he could 
keep nigh us, and we could lift it over the stiles and that.” 

“ The wery thing,” said Mr. Weller, who was a party interest- 
ed, inasmuch as he ardently longed to see the sport. “The 
wery thing. Well said , Small-check I’ll have it out, in a mi- 
nute.” , 

But here a difficulty arose. The long gamekeeper resolutely 
protested against the. introduction into a shooting-party, of a 
gentleman in a barrow, as a gross violation of all established rules 
and precedents, 

It was a great objection, butnotan insurmountable one. The 
gamekeeper., living been coaxed and feed ,-and having, more- 
over, eased his mind by “ punching” the head of the inventive 
youth who had first suggested the use of the machine, Mr. Pick- 
wick was placed in it, and off the party set*, Wardle and the 
long gamekeeper leading the way, and Mr. Pickwick in the bar- 
row, propelled by Sam , bringing up the rear. 

“ Stop, Sam,” said Mr. Pickwick when they had got half 
across the first field. 

“ What’s the matter now?” said Wardle. 

“,I won’t suffer this barrow to be moved another step,” said 
Mr. Pickwick , resolutely* “ unless Winkle carries that gun 
of his , in a different manner.” 

“ How am,\ to carry it? ” . said the wretched Winkle. 

“ Carry it with the muzzle to the ground ,” replied Mr. Pick- 
wick. . < 

“ It’s so unsportsman-like ,” reasoned Winkle. 

“I don’t care whether , it's unsportsman-like or not,” replied 
Mr. Pickwick > “ I am not going to be shot in a wheelbarrow* 
for the sake of appearances , to please anybody.” 


Digitized by UooQle 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 221 

“ I know the gentleman ’ll put Itoattere' charge ihto somebody 
afore he’s done, 1 ” growled the long man. ■ 1 '• ‘ ^" u 

“Well, well" I donftnMnd,” said poor 'Mt.'Wftilde, turn- 
ing his gun stock uppermost;'"** there.” ’ " ’ M 

“ Anythin’ for a quiet life;” said Mr. Weller; and on they 
went again* 

“ Stop,” said Mr. Pickwick . after they had gone afew yar<?9 
further. 

“ What now? ’’said Wardle. ‘ '' 

“ That gun 'of Tupman’s is not safe : I know it isn’t,” said 
Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Eh? Whatl not safe?” said Mr. Tupman', in a tone of^reat 
alarm. 

“ Not as you are carrying it ,” said Mr. Pickwick. “ I am very 
sorry to make any further objection , but I cannot consent to go 
on, unless you carry it, as Winkle does his.” 

“ I think you had better, sir,” said the long gamekeeper, “ or 
you’re quite as likely to lodge the charge in your own vestcoat 
as in anybody, else’s.” 

Mr. Tupman , with the most obliging haste , placed his piece 
in the position required , and the party moved on again ; the two 
amateurs marching with reversed arms , like a couple of privates 
at a royal funeral. 1 

The dogs suddenly earn© to a dead stop , arid the party ad- 
vancing stealthily a single pace, stopped too. 

“What’s the matter with the dogs’ legs?” whispered Mr. 
Winkle. “ How queer they're standing ! ’’ 

“ Hush , can’t yon?” replied Wardle , softly. “ Don’t yon See, 
they’re making a point?” 

“ Making a point! ” said Mr. Winkle, staring about him , as 
if he expected to discover some particular beauty in the land- 
scape , which the sagacious animals were calling special attention 
to. “ Making a point! What are they pointing at?” 

“ Keep your eyes open said Wardle, not heeding the ques- 
tion in the excitement of the moment. “ Now then.” 

There was a sharp whirring noise , that made Mr. Winkle 
start back as if he had been shot himself. Bang, bang , Went a 
couple of guns ; — the smoke swept quickly away over the field, 
and curled into the air. 

“ Where are they 2 ” said Mr. Winkle 1 , in a state of the highest 
excitement, turning round and round in all directions. “ Where 
are they? Tell me when to fire. Where are they — where are 
they?” v 'i ' f 

“ Where are they! ” said Wardle; taking up a brace of birds 
which the dogs had deposited' at 'his feet. “ Where ate they ! 
Why, here they are.” 


Digitized by 


* 

Google 



222 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ No , no ; I mean the others ,” said the bewildered Winkle. 

“ Far enough off , by this time replied Wardle , coolly re- 
loading his gun. 

“ We shall very likely be up with another covey in five mi- 
nutes,” said the long gamekeeper “ If the gentleman begins 
to fire now, perhaps he’ll just get the shot out of the barrel by 
the time they rise.” 

“ Ha ! ha ! ha ! ” roared Mr. Weller. 

“Sam,” said Mr. Pickwick, compassionating his follower’s 
confusion and embarrassment. 

“ Sir.” 

“ Don’t laugh.” 

“Certainly not, sir.” So, by way of indemnification , Mr. 
Weller contorted his features from behind the wheelbarrow, 
for the exclusive amusement of the boy with the leggings , who 
thereupon burst into a boisterous laugh , and was summarily 
cuffed by the long gamekeeper, who wanted a pretext for turn- 
ing round , to hide his own merriment. 

“Bravo, old fellow!” said Wardle to Mr. Tupman ; “you 
fired that time, at all events.” 

“Oh yes,” replied Mr. Tupman, with conscious pride. “I 
let it off.” 

“Well done. You’ll hit something next time, if you look 
sharp. Very easy, ain’t it? ” 

“ Yes, it’s very easy,” said Mr. Tupman. “ How it hurts one’s 
shoulder, though. It nearly knocked me backwards. I had no 
idea these small fire-arms kicked so.” 

“ Ah said the old gentleman , smiling •, “ you’ll get used to 
it, in time. Now then — all ready — all right with the barrow 
there?” 

“ All right, sir,” replied Mr. Weller. 

“ Come along then.” 

“ Hold hard, sir,” said Sam, raising the barrow. 

“Aye, aye,” replied Mr. Pickwick-, and on they went, as 
briskly as need be. 

“Keep that barrow back now,” cried Wardle, when it had 
been hoisted over a stile into another field , and Mr. Pickwick 
had been deposited in it once more. 

“All right, sir,” replied Mr. Weller, pausing. 

“ Now, Winkle,” said the old gentleman , “ follow me softly, 
and don’t be too late this time.” 

“ Never fear,” said Mr. Winkle. “ Are they pointing? ” 

“No, no; not now. Quietly now, quietly.” On they crept, 
and very quietly they would have advanced , if Mr. Winkle , in 
the performance of softie very intricate evolutions with his gun , 
had not accidentally fired, at the most critical moment, over the 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 223 

boy’s head, exactly in the very spot where the tall man’s brain 
would have been , had he been there instead. 

“ Why, what on earth did you do that for? ’’said old Wardle, 
as the birds flew unharmed away. 

“ I never saw such a gun in my life ,” replied poor Winkle , 
looking at the lock , as if that would do any good. “ It goes off, 
of its own accord. It will do it.” 

“ Will do it! ” echoed Wardle, with something of irritation 
in his manner. “I wish it would kill something of its own 
accord.” 

“ It ’ll do that afore long , sir,” observed the tall man , in a 
low, prophetic voice. 

“What do you mean by that observation, sir?” inquired 
Mr. Winkle, angrily. 

“Never mind, sir— never mind,” replied the long game- 
keeper; — “I’ve no family jnyself, sir; and thft here boy’s 
mother will get something handsome from Sir Geoffrey, if he’s 
killed on his land. Load again , sir — load again.” 

“Take away his gun,” cried Mr. Pickwick from the barrow, 
horror-stricken at the long man’s dark insinuations. “ Take away 
his gun, do you hear, somebody?” 

Nobody, however, volunteered to obey the command; and 
Mr. Winkle , after darting a rebellious glance at Mr. Pickwick , 
reloaded his gun , and proceeded onwards with the rest. 

We are bound , on the authority of Mr. Pickwick , to state , 
that Mr. Tupman’s mode of proceeding evinced for more of pru- 
dence and deliberation , than that adopted by Mr. Winkle. Still , 
this by no means detracts from the great authority of the latter 
gentleman, on all matters connected with the field; because, as 
Mr. Pickwick beautifully observes , it has somehow or other 
happened , from time immemorial , that many of the best and 
ablest philosophers, who have been perfect lights of science in 
matters of theory, have been wholly unable to reduce them to 
practice. 

Mr. Tupman’s process , like many of our most sublime dis- 
coveries, was extremely simple. With the quickness and pe- 
netration of a man of genius , he had at once observed that the 
two great points to be attained were — first, to discharge his 
piece without injury to himself, and , secondly, to do so , without 
danger to the by-standers ; — obviously, the best thing to do , 
after surmounting the difficulty of firing at all, was to shut his 
eyes firmly, and fire into the air. 

On one occasion , after performing this feat , Mr. Tupman , 
on opening his eyes, beheld a plump partridge in the very act of 
falling wounded to the ground. He was just on the point of con- 
gratulating Wardle on his invariable success , when that gentle- 


Digitized by 


Google 



P0STHJTty9.PS PAPERS 

man adypnced, towards bin*, an,d gr*spedhjm yv;a^mly by tbe 

” * *■" * • »i'\ 1 i : - ' * t » j »■«.' : , , ■ 

“Tupman,” said the old gentleman, “you singled out that 
pgjjtjcpi^ bird ? ” 

“ XQU$d„” §aid Wardle- “ I saw you do it-^J observed you 
pick biw quir^ noticed you as you raised! , your piece.to take 
aiiq,; and j will say this, that the best shot in existence could 
not have done it more beautifully. You are an older hand at 
this, than I thought you, Tupman ; — you have been out before.” 

It was in vain for Mr. Tupman to protest, with a smile of self- 
denial , that he never had. The very smile was taken as evidence 
to the contrary; and from that time forth, his reputation was 
established. It is not the only reputation that has been acquired 
as easily, nor are such fortunate circumstances confined to 
partridge-shooting. 

Meanwhile, Mr. Winkle flashed, and blazed, and smoked 
away, without producing any material results worthy of being 
noted down ; sometimes expending his, charge in mid-air, and at 
others sending it skimming along so near the surface of the 
ground, as to place the lives of the two dogs on a rather un- 
certain and precarious tenure. As a display of fancy-shooting , 
it was extremely varied and curious; as an exhibition of firing 
With any, precise object, it was, upon the whole, perhaps a 
failure. It js an established axiom, that “ every bullet has its 
billet.” If it apply in an equal degree to shots, those of Mr. Winkle 
were unfortupate foundlings, deprived of their natural rights, 
cast loose, upon the world , and billeted nowhere. 

“ Well,” said Wardle, walking up to the side of the barrow, 
and wiping the streams of perspiration from his jolly red face; 
“ smoking day, isn’t it? ” • ( 

“ It is indeed ,” replied Mr. Pickwick. “The sun is tremen- 
dously , hot, even to me. I don’t know how you must feel it.” 

“ Why,” said the old gentleman, “ pretty hot. It’s past twelve, 
though. .You see that green hill there ? ” 

“Ce^tajply.” ,.. ... 

“That’s the place where we ,ajfe to lunch; and, by Jove, 
there’s, the boy with the basket, punctual as clock-work.” 

„ “,§9 be is,” $aid Mr. Piqkppk , brjghteqjng up. y “Good boy, 
that. I’ll give him a shilling, presently. iSow* then, Sam, wheel 
away,” ,r- i, . ..... 

“ Holdon,^ic,’’SsM Mr, Welfer, invigprated with tire prospect 
pf refreshments. “Opt of the (| V|ay v youpg leathers, Ifyouwal- 
ley my precious life, (Jpp’t upjset me, as the genTman said tp the 
drive^ whjenthpy Wfls.tyj%yV him to Tyburn.*’ And quicken- 
ing his pace to a sharp run, Mr. ‘Weller wheeled his master 




OF THE. PICKWICK CLUB. 225 

nimbly to the green hill , shot him dexterously out by the very 
side of the basket, and proceeded to unpack it with the utmost 
despatch. 

“ Weal pie,” said Mr. Weller, soliloquising , as he arranged 
the eatables on the grass. “ Wery good thing is a weal pie , 
when you know the lady as made it, and is quite sure it an’t kit-,r 
tens-, and arter all though , where’s the odds , when they’re so"' 
like weal that the wery piemen themselves don’t know the dif- 
ference?” 

“ Don’t they, Sam ? ” S»id Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Not they, sir,” replied Mr. Weller, touching his hat. “ I 
lodged in the same house with a pieman once , sir, and a wery 
nice man he was — reg’lar clever chap , too — make pies out o’ 
anything , he could. ‘ What a, number o’ cats you keep , Mr. 
Brooks,’ says I when I’d got intimate with him. ‘ Ah ,’ says he , 

‘ I do — a good many,’ says he. ‘ You must be wery fond o’ cats,’ 
says I. ‘ Other people is,’ says he , a winkin’ at me ; ‘ they an’t 
in season till the winter though,’ says he. ‘ Not in season ! ’ says 
I. ‘ No,’ says he, ‘ fruits is in, cats is out.’ ‘ Why, what do you 
mean? ' says I. ‘ Mean ? ’ says he. ‘ That I’ll never be a party to 
the combination o’ the butchers , to keep up the prices o’ meat,’ 
says he. ‘ Mr. Weller,’ says he, squeezing my hand wery hard , 
and vispering in my ear — ‘ don’t mention this here agin , but 
it’s the seasonin’ as does it. They’re all made 0’ them noble ani- 
mals,’ says he , a pointin’ to a wery nice little tabby kitten , ‘ and 
I seasons ’em for beefsteak , weal , or kidney, ’cordin to the de- 
mand; and more than that,’ says he, ‘ I can make a weal a beef- 
steak , or a beefsteak a kidney, or any one on ’em a mutton , at 
a minute’s notice , just as the market changes , and appetites 
wary!”’ 

“ He must have been a very ingenious young man, that, Sam,” 
said Mr. Pickwick, with a slight shudder. 

“ Just was, sir,” replied Mr. Weller, continuing his occupation 
of emptying the basket , “and the pies was beautiful. Tongue ; 
well that’s a wery good thing, when it an’t a woman’s. Bread — 
knuckle 0’ ham , reg’lar picter — cold beef in slices , wery good. 
What’s in them stone jars, young touch-and-go?” 

“ Beer in this one,” replied the boy, taking from his shoulder 
a couple of large stone bottles , fastened together by a leathern 
strap — “ cold punch in t’other.” 

“And a wery good notion of a lunch it is; take it altogether,” 
said Mr. Weller, surveying his arrangement of the repast with 
great satisfaction. “ Now, gen’l’men , ‘ fall on ,’ as the English 
said to the French when they fixed bagginets.” 

. It needed no second invitation to induce the party to yield full 
justice to the meal ; and as little pressing did it require, to induce 
1 . 15 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



226 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

Mr,, Welter* J}» e .tang gamekeeper, and the two boys , to Nation 
themseifl9l»<#fllitbe gnj&s,at,ft.liftle distance , and do good execu- 
tiqn.WPftftiaj dgc§nt,<prpportion of the viands. An old oak tree 
affiontad apieerantoheHerto the group, and a rich prospect of 
arabjpnnd meadow tend, intersected with luxuriant hedges, and 
richly f^nameptfldwith .wood, lay spread out below them, , 

‘ ‘.ilhis is delightful— thoroughly delightful I ” said ,Mri Pick- 
widi* Jhe^ skin i p f whose , expressive countenance was rapidly 
pealing! oflE, exposure to tfe#. sun.. , 

i ‘.f jgq ft isr-»#o it is,, old Mow-," replied Wardle. “ Come ; a 
glassofipnochif no'n* /on • , ■ 

.tf, Withgoeati pleasure}” saidM*. Pickwick* and the satisfac- 
tion pf h»5 4sapi»teaiaB0^ iafter drinking it , bore testimony to the 
sincerity of tbereply. t ; 

“ Good,” said Mr. Pickwick, smacking his lips. “Very good. 
PH take another. "Cool; wry cool, Come , gentlemen ,” conti- 
nued Mr. Pkkwieki, stilt* retaining! his, hold upon the jar, “ a 
toasti ,0hrd4endSiatIHn^dy!AsliJ’ i 'ft 

• h^e/toast was dio^,wi(te loud aft^maticms. ^ ■ 

= PH tell you what I shaft da*’ tot get up uayi shooting again ,” 
said Mr. >Wink)e,who was<6atteg thread and ham . with . a pocket- 
knife^i^ni. put ; a stuffed i partridge oom the. stop, ofa post, and 
praefoeiatit, begiruattguati a- shortdistas'iee , andifengthening it 
bydegreas.uIiunderBtandil’aeapitalpRaetice.”. 

‘AIdtnewagtffl!l!man,8rr,” said Mr, Weller, ‘has did that, and 
begun at two yards ; but he never tried it on agin ; for be Mowed 
thabirdiright dean away at the first fire, aadoebodyever seed 
aifedthor on hiiti afterwards.”- . , 

i '>Sam,’’ saidiMn Pickwick. 

.“iSir,” replied Mr. Weller. 

“ Have- thegoodness to reserve your anecdotes, ’till they are 
called for.” 1 
“ Cert’nly, sir.” 

> Here Mr- Weller winked the eye which was not concealed by 
the beenfCBR beiwas raising to his lips , with such exquisite face- 
tiousnerav that itbettow) hoys went into spontaneous convulsions, 
andjeventfceJortg man condescended to smile. 
i >i “ W«Hp'!tiMd.certdiiiyisiiibolsfc capital cold poach,” said. Mr. 

• Pickwick- ji Ipokin g earnestly at the stone .bottle; f. “and the day is 
'extnetaefcy wdxanyapd ^lEupamni, my, dear friend.,; a glass of 
punch?” Js-M*, blip ytih.'IJ, •• •• ■ • 

With jtha.'greateabidelight,” .replied. H&v Tupman; and 
-having deads, thatiglasa^ Mr. Pickwick took another, Just to see 
whether there WMdnyorange peel in the punch , because orange 
p*d dlwayhdjsagrged l With him ; and finding that there was not, 
MriffBickwidt took another glass to the health of their absent 


Digitized by 


Gc >le 


OF IWE ' •PICkWlOK.i CLUB. S27 

friend.and'thenfelt hfthMf impmfivety^lM ujtoniiVhfifope&e 
another* in hOrtoOr of the ptafichi-tetimitoimder, tmkmrtvrn^ecwi 
This constant succession of glasses; produced considerable 
effect npKta' Mr. Pickwick ; -his countenance beamed. toithlfce 
most sunny smiles; laughter played around hisllps; amtgtJed- 
humoured merriment twinkled in bis eye; 1 Yieldibgby degrttebto 
die inflUeriee-of the exoitirig tiqitid rendered more'so by the'heat , 
Mr.PickWicfe expressed a strong desire to recollect a song which 
he had heard in his infancy, and the attempt proving abortive , 
sought to stimulate his 1 memory with more glasses of ponch , 
which appeared to have quite a contrary effect ; for, (Torn forget- 
ting the wordS of the sbhg , hef began to forget how to Articulate 
any words at all ; and fimaliy, after rising to his legs -to address 
the company in an eloquent speech , he fell into the'barrow, and 

fast asleep, simultaneously.^ - < 

The basket having been repacked J and it being found perfectly 
impossible’ to awaken Mr. Pickwick from his torpor, sbme dis- 
cussion took place whether it wohld be better for Mr; Weller to 
wheel his master'fcabk 1 again jortodeave him where 1 he Was, 
untihthey shoutdatt he ready to hetom. The latter course was 
at length decided bh ; aid as 1 their further -expedition was not to — “* 
exceed an hour’s duration', and asMr. Weller begged Very hard n f 2 , 
tube orie-of the party, it was determined to leave Mr. Pickwick * 
asleep in the barrow, and to eall fbr him ontheir return. So away 
they went , leaving Mr: Pickwick snoring most comfortably in „/ 
the shade. ’ ^ 

That Mr. Pickwick would have continued tosnore ip the shade — 
until his friends came back, or, in default thereof until the 
shades of evening had fallen on the landscape , there appears no 

reasonable cause to doubt ; always supposing that he had been . 

suffered to remain there , in peace. But he was not suffe^d to , 
remain there in peace. And this- is wqa t prevented him. 

Captain Boldwig was a little fierce man in a stiff black / 

neckerchief and blue surtout , who , when he did condescend to 
walk 'About his property, did it in company with a thick ratdn 
stick with a brass ferrule, and a gardener and sbb^gardener with 
meek faces, to whom (the gardeners, not the stick) Captain 
Seklwig gtftetris Orders with an due grandeur and ferocity : for 
Captain ! Bold wig's* wife's sister had' married a; -marquis 1 , and the 
eaptate’shdusewasa Villas and his land ^grounds', ’’audit was 
ail very high , and mighty, and great. ■ ■ : . , 

* 1 ) »Mrii Picbvif ckMd* notibeen aStobp! > half! am ;hcwi1, WhCrt little 
©apfeitu Boldtoigyfeiltowed by the bVo gardeners /Canto striding 
along asfastas htfraize ahd> impertanceiweuldlet him ; and when 
he name-near die oaktroei, Captain BotdWig'paeSed ,■ and drew 
a tong breath, and looked at the prospect, as if he thought (he 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



228 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

prospect ought to be highly gratified at having him to take notice 

of 4,; ap,d tJiOO be struck the ground emphatically witlr his stick , 

? and summoned the head-gardener. 

“ HurUf/’aaM Captain Boldwig. 
sir,” said thelgardener. 

“ Roll this place to-morrow morning — do you hear, Hunt?” 

“Yes, sir.” 

“ : Aiid’tsikeddre 1 that you keep me this place in go,od order — 
do you hbar, Hunt?” ’ 1 , 

Yes, sir.” 

“ And remind me to have a board done about trespasses, 
and spring guns , and all that sort of thing , to keep the common 
people out. Do you hear, Hunt ; do you hear ? ” 

“ I’ll not forget it, sir.” 

“ I beg your pardon , sir,” said the other man , advancing , 
with his hand to his hat. ’ 

“ Well, Wilkins, what’s the matter with you? ” said Captain 
Boldwig. 

“ I beg your pardon , sir —but I think there have been tres- 
passers here to-day.” m r ‘ J ' ! 

. f‘,' Hal” said the captain , scowling around him. 1 
1 . Yes , sir — they have been dining here , 1 think , sir.” 

}'/ ' f “ Why, damn their audacity, so they have,” said Captain 

iy \ Boldwig , as the crumbs and fragments that were strewn upon 
the grassy metbiseye. “They have actually been devouring ) 
their food here. I wish I had the vagabonds here ! ,r 'saFd "the ' 
Captain, clenching the thick stick. 

“ I. wish I had the vagabonds here,” said the captain wrath- 
fuMy., . 

“ Beg your pardon , sir,” said Wilkins , “ but — ” 

“ But what? Eh? ” roared the captain ; and following the timid 
glance of Wilkins > his eyes encountered the wheelbarrow and 
Mr. Pickwick, ; 

“ Who are you, you rascal? ” said the captain , administering 
several pokes to Mr. Pickwick’s body with the thick stick. 

“ What’s your name? ” 

“ Cold punch ,”;murmured Mr. Pickwick , as he sunk to sleep 
again. ' 

“ What?” demanded Captain Boldwig. 

No reply. 

“ What did he say his name Was?” asked the captain. 

“ Punch , I think , sir,” replied Wilkins. 

“ That’s his impudence — that’s his confounded impudence,” 
said Captain Boldwig. “ He’s only feigning to be asleep now,” 
said the captain, in a high passion. “ He’s drunk; he’s a . 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 229 

drunken plebeian. Wheel him away, Wilkins, wheel him away 
directly.” . - 

“ Where shall I wheel him to , sir? ’’ inquired Wilkins , with 
great timidity. 1 

“ Wheel him to the Devil,” replied Captain Bddwig. !! 

“ Very well , sir,” said Wilkins. 

“ Stay,” said the captain. 

Wilkins stopped accordingly. , 

“ Wheel him,” said the captain , “ wheel him to .the pound ; 
and let us see whether he calls himself Punch , when he comes 
to himself. He shall not bully me — he shall not bully me. 

Wheel him away.” 

Away Mr. Pickwick was wheeled in compliance with this im- 
perious mandate , and the great Captain Boldwig , swelling with 
indignation, proceeded on his walk. C/3 3 
Inexpressible was the astonishment of the little party when 
they returned, to find that Mr. Pickwick had disappeared , and „ 
taken the wheelbarrow with him. It was the most mysterious / y"'' A 
and unaccountable thing that was ever heard of. For a lame man^l 
to have got upon his legs without any previous notice , and / 
walked off, would have been most extraordinary; but When it -<>•.>«• 
came to his wheeling a heavy barrow before him, by way of y... # 
amusement, it grew positively miraculous. They searched every / t 

nook and corner round , together and separately ; they shotted, 
whistled , laughed , called — and all with the same result / ' Mr. 

Pickwick was not to be found-, and after some hours of fruitless 
search, they arrived at the unwelcome conclusion, that they 
must go home without him. ’ -■ 

Meanwhile Mr. Pickwick had been wheeled to the pound, 
and safely deposited therein , fast asleep in the wheelbarro^, to 
the immeasurable delight and satisfaction , not only of all the 
boys in the village, but three fourths of the whole population , 
who had gathered round in expectation of his waking. If their 
most intense gratification had been- awakened' by seeing him 
wheeled in, how many hundred-fold was their joy increased 
when , after a few indistinct cries of “Sami” he sat up in the 
barrow, and gazed with indescribable astonishment on the faces 

before him. r, ! ’ ; , '‘ l r 

A general shout was of course the signal of bife having woke 
up; and his involuntary inquiry of “What’s the matter?” oc- 
casioned another, louder than the Ilntf,’ if powiMfe ;f>i! 

“ Here’s a game ,” roared the populace. " l 

“Where am I?” exclaimed Mr. PtekwibkJ' ,|1 '' 

“ In the pound,” replied the mob. - ' 5 '' 1 ’ f ' 1 ( 

“ How came I here? What was I doing ? Where Wiis I’bi^obght 

from?” - ' i«w 

•• ..!• 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



230 POSTBUtfOCS PAPERS 

“ Boldwig — Captain Boldwig ,” was the only reply. 

“Let meout,” cried Mr. Pickwick. “Where’s my servant? 
Where are my friends? ” 

“ You an’t got no triads, ftbrrah!*’ And then there came a 
turnip , and then a potato , and then an egg , with a few other 
litUctokens of the playftd disposition of the many-headed^ „ f, ? 

HOwiob'g this scene might have lasted , or how much Mr." 
Pickwick' mighfhkveSiiffered', noohe cart Ml,' 'had not a car- 
riage which was driving swiftly by, suddenly pulled up , from 
j, i whence there descended old Wardle and Sam Weller, the former 

fW ^ orWhcirtiVitf ftk fess' tiiJW'tfiWi It tifk&tti IP not *® read 

had made' his way to Mr; Pickwick’s 'sideband ptaeed him in 
? c Jj the vehicle ,‘ Just ds the latter hid concluded tbe third -and last 

4 round 6f a single comt/at' with the 1 town-'beddle. - 1 

“ftun td the Jastice’si” cridd : a'doken-^oieesl! ■'<** > ■ 
'“Ah,ruft awiy,’’ said MR 1 'WeJldr, jumping uprtn the box. 
f luiJ ? “ Give irty compliments-^Mr. 1 VeHer’S'ttmiplkrients-^O'theJas- 

V i tite , and ten him I’ve spoilt bisbeaicne , aad thirt, ifhetfl drear 

■f s in'dtieW ’un,Tll come back agin (wnottAwaWdspoil him. Drive 

on , oid teller.” ■■■•■"* “•> 

“I’ll give directions frtr thrt^rtdMrtencemeot of an actioh* for 
- / fthte'iMblrisonirtent agairtst tbisCttptairt- BOldwig , 1 directly! get 

Id'Ltrtidbh ,” said Mr. Pickwick as SOW* art the Carriage turned 
- dtftdrftHe town; ; 1 1 1 ■■■• v -■;')<>!> rin 

" ll “ , Wd WliiW trespassing 1 , > it / 9eenis; ,? SUM 1 IWatdle." " n **•»"■- 
■ (i said Mk Pickwick ’ “Pllbringttie adtien.” 

11 ^No'^bu’ W&filt, 6aid‘Wiirdler. ’ »■ ■■ • - d*~ >•->■ • 

but as there’ was«humoroUS ! expression in 
W8rffle’s'ffiee,lVfer.Pickwickchecked himself iandsaid-^^ Why 

h6l?^"' ‘ ’ 2 ■ : • ' ■ ’ 

'“Because,”' Said old Wardle, half-bursting with laughter, 

“ because (bey might turn round on some of us, and say we had 
taken too much cold punch.” 

1 "Do Whathe Would , a smile Would come into Mr. Pickwick’s 
ftl6e; She srttile extended iiitoa lartgh , the lafrtgh into aroar, and 
the roar became generat -SO, to' keep' up their good humour, 
f(irt^ ! ^dppe(f 'at the first rOad*Sidi tavetn they Came to , dnd or- 
I deral a glass Ofb^attdyahd watefaftrourtd, with a rtiagrtum of 

I extra strength , for Mr. Samuel WeUer. 

> 1 • yi'ivlrrjiriii'i i'i js"'{ 4I1' him r omorl tn 1 1.-«- 1* -'•■•'i ■';> 

■ ! (“‘'iff 'f,!i MHlJ It; .‘))jnv .(*; ‘■■r 

> ^UO\ . If'.M . li bit*.*! J , ll’> ’ jr> d'V // . V'L,’*!-' • :1 . 

J if*} i \l f::w 

, ifaifO » , -• - 

't " rOHh:*iio i fMf /• ■ . 

’ ’* 1 ''Hi-ill' - .| 1 h !* 1 (M. 1 , . .. 


Digitized by 


Google 


«i- ^ 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB 


231 




U't if!! t 


CHAPTER 


Wv*r| Vfft OTR 'mi* A 
> TOR 11 * » ( 

^ : * t* > ** *.*#»»-. R osdt hflR 

SHOWING *OW D09MR AND FOGG WERE MEN OF BU^PjWft, ^ND.ffljW £^£9, ME* Of 


PLEArtJH! (( AH B*W AN AFTflOflUO INTERVIEW 1^0* fl^E £E. ,V(^LRR 

AND HIS l4>HQrf4ST fWWTZ i SHOWING ALSO, WHAT, CHQ^^I^TS .ASSEMBLE*) AT 

THE MAGPIE AND STUMP. AND WHAT A CAPITAL CHAPTER THE* NEXT 'ONE WILL BE. 

,l> - 1 - { ' "•* ^ < - 1 j i ^ ?»;// jHn if, . \ ; . : 

'' ,j * ; ‘in; iiu\K\U hi j!> r i‘tf.fn »r -, *> / 

In . the ground-flow front ofa VW Yfiry furthest f '"i/s 

end of Freeman* « Court , Corabill \ aal^f^r^irl^^Mawrs. - 
Dodaonaud Fogg,:tw»,of,bi8 Majesty^ Attorneys pf the Court*/ 7 s 
of King’s Bench and Common Pleas at Westminster, and soU- ^ 
citors of the Hifldk-'CQQH'9lCbMiBaY /ifon ;afppes*id ejerks // f 
catching about as. fawjuvable, ghmtses of heaven’s light, and 
heaven’s sun, in the (OOURSe nf tbfir -daily labours, PS. araan 
mightilfope torioi WH® Hfl,pl*fedgMheMttpi» p^i^&onably 
deep well »d.*tjifecw**te^^ 

in the day-time, which the latter secluded situation f(l , 

-The leieirtss’toffitiftfOf. Maww^ D»f|sy» and Fogg was a flark, 

mouldy,, ewthy-iaineHihgiisoopj^wjth abigfe : wain^pj*jd 
towwsenjtheelerijB {nofotte^nls^gysei a^m^of 
chairs, a very loud-ticking clock, an almanac^n^ 
stand , a rowofhflt/pegs, a^fafow sh^y^j ^jwjiiph W ede - 
positadnajwal ti^pted bundles, of dirty .p^pers,^)^^ deal 
* boxes with paper labels , and suBdry dpeay ed flfepe i »ftk, b® ttles 
of vanoua shapes and sizes. - There was ,a, gla*% d°^W Jepding 
into thepassage which formed the entrance |o Abe court pn 

the outer side of this glass door Mr. Pickwick , “closely followed $ |,7 ') 
by Sam i Weller ..presented himself on the, Friday mowing suc- 
ceeding the; occurrence , of which a faiU^ narration is&iyep in 
the last chapter. 

- i 4 * Come in , can’4 yon?” cried a voscefippi behind the parti- 
tion , in .reply to Mr. Pickwick’s gentle tap at the door. 4dd Mr. 
PkWiek! and Sam entered accordingly. .<...• 

'■ ‘‘Mr. Dodson or Mr. Fogg ; at .bepa©! ^ ? ’h w“ved 

Mr. Pifilwick, gently , *dvaoqi«g i-.Jltfi fflhAwd 

partition. i ■:.■•'// Mirpe-’t --r/ vi .U'm! >•:•< .or. 

“ Mr. Dodson ain’t at home, and Mr. Fogg’s particularly en- 
gaged ,” replied the voice *, and at the same time the head to 
which the voice belonged , with a pen behind its ear, looked 
over the partition , and at Mr. Pickwick. 

It was a ragged head , the sandy hair of which , scrupulously 
parted on one side , and flattened down with pomatum , was 
twisted into little semi-circular tails round a flat face ornamented 


4*^ 


e l l 



Digitized by 


Google 



'££33 > i POftTHU JIOUS PAPERS 

ipaahof sfnalP-eyee ,)and garnished iwith-avery dirty shirt- 
lentoUs*} and a rusty Mack stock. 

-lit Bodsonninlt bt'horme, and Mr/Fogg’S particularly en- 
ingagadi^) Saad'tteimaivito'whora the head belcUtged. i i •>: 
tinis .‘fc-WIsMa WillMr. Dodson be back, sir?” inquired Mr. Pick- 
r bricky 1/ ‘ "• 5>*» »i. *• i ■ i- • . »Ui..«'> • ji*« 

t>Kirf‘ICMrtisayi^- !■ • ' •- ■ <• i ■> ••■■■■’ h"--. 1 > ,, . 

i. Hi^AVillitbeilongibetore Mr. Fogg is disengaged!, 1 sir? ” 
•|i.i^Doa , t : lnibTr/ , '" , ‘'"'' " '' •iv.'.' 1 ’jv'-I f » r»- is. 

n ' Here the) man prdceeded to mend his pen With great delibera- 
tibh, \rbile another derk,' who 'HmS'^nisinig 4 Seidlitipowdejx 
l under) cover of the lid <ofhis desk laughed Upprovingtyo ' 

■ ■ ^ I thinkFil wait,” saidMr.Piekwiek. There Wasi rtoTepty ; 
sb Mr. Pickwick sat down unbidden , and listened* to the loud 
ticking of the clock and the murmured Conversation! of the 
clerks.- • •' - - •’ • 1 ’> i< •»«■ - 1 : ' I: :Au 

ii •«« That was a game, wasn’t it ? said ode of the 'gentlemen , 
^ in a bfown coat and brass buttons , iUUyidrabk ,>iand Mtteliet’S, at 
... ' the -feonotUSion of sorne inaadibleirelatiohwf his ptfeviOTis teven- 
/")■ ing’s adVpntures. : *>■.• K'r .<<!• > o e.JM ' g/ v >, !r 

i ' d Devilish good— deVdish gOodt” Said 1 the ' Seidttoipowder 

M WMwi. .t.iu ./.i <■ . ■ : <• lc. /i.ifriji • f«l c f.'-'fi 

*i # ‘ Tkjm'fCutamins was in the chair,” said the man with the 
browheoat: • i ‘ It Was half-past four when 1 jgotdo Somers Town, 
and then I' was so prediows drank , that I Couldnif fi«d ; the place 
* ' "whbreittie latlch+key went in , and was obliged to knock up the 
old ’’oomah. ® say, I wonder what old Fogg ’ud say,' if he knew 
it. I shohld'get tbe'sadk , I s’pose— eh?” 

At this bhmoTous notion , all the clerks laughed in concert. 

w There was such a game With Fogg here, this momin’,” said 
U the man in the brown coat, “ while Jack was up stairs sorting 
the papers, and you two were gone to the stamp-office. Fogg 
was down here opening the letters , when that chap as we issued 
- the writ against at Camberwell , you know , came in — what’s 
his name again? ” 

“ Ramsey,” said the' clerk who trad spoken to Mr. Pickwick. . 
, M Ah, Ramsey— spreCMwra seedy-looking customer. ‘ Well , 
sir,’ says old Fogg, kjokingathkn very fierce —you know his 
way — ‘well, slty haveyoucometo 1 settle? ’* Yes, I have, sir,’ 
said ROmsey, putting his band in hislpockety'and bringing out 
the moneys Hhe debt’s iliww'pobnd' 'ten'; And the costs three 
pound five , and here it is y sir 1 ’ and he sighed like bricks , as he 
lugged' oot the >moneyi"dohei Hip in a 'bit of blotting-paper. Old 
Fogg looked first at the money', and then at him, and then he 
coughed in his turn way, so that I knew something was coming. 

' You don’t know thera's/a declaration/filed , which increases 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE WOKWiCK CLUB. 233 

the costs materially, I suppose ? ’ said Fogg. ‘ You don’t say that, 
sir,’ said Ramsey, starting back; ‘ the time was only out, last 
night , sir.’ ‘ I do say it , though ,’ said Fogg , ‘ my clerk’s just 
gone to file it. Hasn’t Mri JiCbson gone to file that declaration 
in Bullman and Ramsey, Mr. Wicks ? ’ Of course I said yes , and 
then Fogg coughed again , and looked at Ramsey. ‘ My-God ! ’ 
said Ramsey ; ‘ and here have I nearly driven^nfyself mad , 
scraping this-mmey together, add ahtono.pilrpose/I'VNone at 
all ,’ said Fogg , coolly ; ‘ so you bad better go back anti scrape 
some more together, and bring it here in time.’ ‘ I can’t get it, 
by God;’said Ramsey, striking the-, desk with his- fist/ ‘ Don’t 
bully me,isiry’ .said Fogg , getting into a passion on purpose; ‘ I 
am .not bullying you ,sir, ’said Ramsey. ‘You are,’ said! Fogg; 

‘ get out j sir ;-gBt out of this office, sir, and come back , sir (when 
.you know, how .to; behave yourself.’ Well, Ramsey tried to 
speak, but Fogg wouldn’t let him, so he put the money in his 
. pocket y and sneaked out. The door was scarcely shut, when 
, Qld"Fogg> turned around, to me, wiffi-a sweet smile on his-face , 
sand drowthp declaration out- of his coat poeket. ‘- Here, Wicks,’ 
says Fogg, ‘ take a cab, and go down to the Temple as quick 
as/<youiean,^nd.fiift. that; The < costs are quite- safe, fot he’s a 
steady man with a large family, at a salary of five-and-twenty 
shWtngSi arwee|k,iand if he. gives us a warrantof attorowty; as he 
mutton. tho-endy l ik»oW' his employers will see it paid ; so. we 
may as* weH get alk we. *can out of him , Mr. -Wicks;* it’s a ../h- 
Christian act to do-it, Mr. Wicks , tor with- his large family and rJ 
small . income , he’ll be all the better for. a good lesson against 
getting into debt,— won’t hey Mr. Wicks; won f t he2’ *— and 
he smiledvso good-naturedly as he went away, that it was de- 
lightful to see him. He is a capital man of business , ’’ said; Wicks, 
in a tone of the deepest admiration , “ capital , isn’t he?’’ 

The other three cordially subscribed to- this opinion , and'the 
anecdote afforded the most unlimited satisfaction. 

“Nice men these here, sir,” whispered Mr. Weller, to his | 
master ; “ wery nice rfotion of fun they has , sir.” 

: -Mr- Pidtwiek nodded assent ; and coughed to attract the atten- 
tion of the young gentlemen behind the partition , who; having 
now- relaxed- their minds by as fittfe conversation .among them- 
selves , condescended to take some notice of the stranger. 

“ I wonder whether .Fogg’s disengaged - now? - said, feckson. 

■ “ I’ll see,’’ said Wicks ,. dismounting leisurely from his stool. 

‘.‘ What name shall I tell Mr. Fogg?” * . oe >> hr 4 r / 

> “Pickwick,” replied the illustrious subject of these me- , t . ... 
moirs. • - ••> 1 ••• *'■. ■ * 

Mr. Jackson departed up stairs on his errand , aod immediate- 
ly returned with a message that Mr. Fogg would see Mr. Pick- 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



234 P 08 TJKW 0 ia»i»A*BKS 

wicfctordbrd iWmilofc jtrtiha^Qgid^vapidi® \ returned again to 

his desk. a<^i>« i( i ' 

“ What did he say his namo .*1 Whispered Wieksit ts i * 
“Ptektypiab /I’o^epBedJaeksoe v ‘,‘dtfstihei defendant jo-fintdell 
and.jPicte«iekl”.i-l oini *n[ 2f:i !<[n,!.! bin? " ! ih‘ 
v4 alddenvacrapiiig pf ifceilti aadogtwtwjth the/SOWdof sup- 
pressed laughter, was heard from behinditbftpartitiqp. 


&& sir™,* 

“ Twigging me , Sam ! ” replied I 




mssmmi 


?ickwick^“^f 


tM Jtojkrrr 

^mtmg 
- - 


sh9uj,der„afld.^r r 

.Uiflt M „ 

expressive of the utmost amusement, an 


,^}fitj^ byer bis 
.rM^.^ible^f 
wi^countenan^s 
their heads thrust 


) 


Aye^te w^ft^ Yfffi . ! minutely inspecting tlye figure 1 dfid 

general appearance of the support! trifle rWi,thT^^ 


:emaie hb^rts , 
b&tih^ f6w 
fend of pehs^triVelling 


aess. On 

^,^ rrT mtmm . 

at a furious rate Over paper 1 < SuC<$dcfiJffi ( sad l 

• }i M sdatfCttringatthe bellWhicHhUWg'ih thaioffij^ybumirioned 
Mr.JtrckSontO the aparttefe&tOMrpgfeyifreni wbenbe^he leacue 
BfiiK'toifeay'that'heyFogg) wasreadyto snesMri) Biehwicfcdhhe 
WdWd^‘#.««rS: JnriT . 


Jnyil; iuo k» Ju uu-»iui 

^stalhs^ri^PifckWifek! did ’i^TOenWtaglfc, lehtfag $nd 
wyiierbetow; ThCrooto'dboi' ef ; fhe o«e^air haek, )bore)i»- 
sCribetf ittAegSttO teh&baeteW' the itftpdsfi^wSBl^’SlKi Fogg 9 ” 
aiid ! , 4 fti^ng tipped “thereat, and heendesiredto come in y Jack- 
son Ushered'MK iPiekwick into the presence. ■■ ■ l u 
‘^I^lMj-JJ^dkoh hr? ’’ inquired Mr. Fogg* :< - ' ■ 

’‘‘■Jlit; Chile in,' sir,** replied Jackson. 1 . i 

“ Ask'hlitf to step here/’ •* ■ 

u Yes, Sir.” Elit Jackson. r 

“Take a seat, Sir,” said Fogg; “ there is the paper, sir: my 
partner will be here directly, and we can converse about this 
ntottfer,'sir. M!: '‘ ! ‘ :i ■ ‘ u* . >< > J ( 

' Mr. Pickwick tbOk a scat and the paper; ‘but; instead <©P read- 


able-diet sow. of taan -id"* hidok'-coatipdartt-'mixturei-troesers , 
*,and small 1 Mack gaiters ; i adcihdi0f''beiii^0*h6<iseem*)e tonbe an 
/ essential part of the desk* at'^HClrb^WasU^ritihfe , adddo have 
abodt aS‘mh(Aii»ifobifit l OTr ) feeHfit.>JO'i: isiiw vloaitanq f u S 
After a few minutes’ silence, Mr. Dodson, a plOtapy portly, 
steriMWoking 'ttiifl , Witlra 'loud' tofcei, Reared /and the con- 
versalloh comihCnced.' s <f b-i<--. . 

“ This is Mr. Pickwick,” said Fogg. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF »H*/PIGIiWtGKj Ci,m. 434 

“ Abil ¥o»a*« the(d(^ddntii6tr^i4iSardeUiMd Biokwicfcd v’ 

said Dodson. M‘)b gin 

“ I at»,t«>/’fr«pii|9d Mf’. , Pifikw»akn g rt vb? ->d bib JsrlW “ 

“ Well;, sir Bdid Dddsdn , “ *od. whalt dq yoii pDopote'l ” • 

“ Ah ! ” said Fogg , "thrusting his hands into his UkmseiMJ^^bo* 
kets, and throWffijpiimself bat* inhidcMrf^Whabld© foil 
propose, Mr. Pickwick?’*’ B->d *nv bwm, 

“ Hush, Fogg, 4 ’ Said Dodson, * ltt AeTMF^fiatte^ftck- 

wick has to say.” l ] ,l ’ n . uca ;ptr.::'iwl 

“ I came , gentlemen replied* Mr. |*iptiSVi<^, i£1 -.^z^'|(>W 1 
cidly on the two partners, ^^'I'lpame IjfeHe j ^entleined, t° 
express the surprise With whipH' I're&ivea yohr 1 letter W 'Hie 
other day, and to inquire what grounds iif 'ictipn ’yoti catl'haWe 
against me.” r 

“ Grounds of” — Fogg had ejaculated, thus much, wjten he 
was stopped by Dodson. , 

I ftMfc.Fogg,” 1 «wd Dodson, u I am going to speak.” , 

“ I beg your pardon, Mr. Dpdspn>” said Fogg. .... , 

• ft For the grounds of actioa,sic, ’’continued Dodson,,- yrith 
moral elevation m his air, “ you will coosultyour owncopsfliencp 
and your own faehngs. We, sifViwe, ace guidpd entirely.byithp 
statement of our client. That statement, sic, may he true^ppit 
may be false ; it may be credible , qr it may bp incrpd<h|p^bpl)> if 
it be true, and if it be credible , I do Apt hesitate to,sa!y t fsir„!that 
our grounds of action , sir, are stroog „ and noh tobp, abakW* 
You may be an unfortunate man ,:air,ipr,yppimay^e.a.4paigPiPS 
one; but if I were called upon as a jurymiteidPOWntypath* sir, 
to express an opinion of your conduct , sir, I do npt hesitate to , 
assert that I should have but one opinion about it.” Hepe Dpdson • 
drew himself up, with an air df offended virtiue , and looked at 
Fogg, who thrust his hands further in his pockets , and nodding 
his head sagely, said , in a tone of the fullest concurrency ‘ ‘.Most 
certainly.?’ ^. , i . , 

“ Well, sir,” said Mr. Pickwick, with considerable paiq dfi - 
picted in his countenance, “,ypn. tp, assure, you, 

that lama most unfortunate man, so far as this cas? is concerned.” 

■ “ I hope yon are sir,”, replied>Dodspu ; “ 1 trust, you may be, 
s*r. -lf yioniare.r8ally i; ipnQCWt,ofi>ybat,is laid to your .charge* 
yoipaite more, unfortunate than ,1 had believed., spy man c wld 
possibly be. Vi^at.dojw«fSfly fc Mr>i,Etogg?”ii =, 

“ I say precisely wbat you say,” replied , Fflggt, , jyfith ,a smile 
of incredulity. | :U ^ ,?r<n r-' 

“The writ, sir, which commences i the a#jpn,” continued 
Dodson, “ was issued regularly. Mr. Fogg, ( p(hfffp ( ^4hfi*r,ee- 
dpe book?” ■> : ...... 4.. ... 4 -,.<l -tf/i ,1 . 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



236 . POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ Here it is,” said Fogg'.'hairdlng over a square book, with 
a parchment cover... !* ><t ■ . - : ' 

„ Herft is. the ten try, ’’resumed Dodson. Middlesex, Capias >•) 

Martha Bardell, widow, v. Samuel Pickwick. Damages , 
JftQPZ. Dodson, sand Fogg for the plaintiff , Aug. 28, 183o.’ All 
regnJar.i sir j.perfecUy'.” And Dodson coughed and looked at 
Fogg, who .said .Perfectly / ? also. And then they both looked 
at MFniPick»ieki,.-.it i . ■ < 

“I am to understand, then,” said Mr. Pickwick , “ that it 
really is your intention to proceed with this action? ” 

“ Understand, sir ! — that you certainly may,” replied Dodson, 
t with something as near a smile as his importance would allow". 

‘‘ And that the damages are actually laid at fifteen hundred 
pounds?” said Mr, Pickwick. ’ ' ' 

“ To which understanding you may add my assurance, That 
> if we could have prevailed upon our client , they would have! 
been laid at treble the amount, sir, ” replied Dodson. ' " 

“I believe Mrs. Bardell specially said, however,” observed 
Fogg, glancing at Dodson, “ that she would not c6rtrprOmis6 for ‘ 
a farthing less.” 1 y 1 ‘ : ' " ,l ’ 

“ Unquestionably,” replied Dodsort , sternly. For the action 
was only just begun; and it wouldn’t have done to let Mr. Pick- 
wick compromise it then , even if he had been so disposed. 1 ' 

,“ As> you offer no terms , sir,” said Dodson ; displaying a i^ip 
of, parchment in his right hand, and affectionately passing a 
paper, copy-of it on Mr. Pickwick with his left, “ 1 had better 
serve you with ft copy of this writ, sir. Here is theorigitial,'sir.” 

“ Very ,well T gentlemen, very well ,” said Mr: Pickwick, rising 
in persooiand, wrath at the same time; “you shall hear from 
my. solicitor, gentlemen.” 

“ We shall be (very happy to do so,” said Fogg,- rubbing his 
hands. •' 

“ Very,” said Dodson , opening the door. ' 

“ And before I go, gentlemen,” said the excited Mr.PleftWiCk,* ' 
turning round on the landing ^ permit me 1 to Say,' tlM ftf alf 
the disgraceful and rascally proceedings — ” i,nB - 

“ Stay, sir, stay,’’ interposed 'DodStmyWttli 'gf^ktf'pbliteftfcss. 

“ Mr<!Jacfc»on!^iMr.» >Wick8.” • •'>/' ^ yiirjr^o k.n "'«>'* ’ 

“ Sir,” said the two clerks,* appearthg 1 at* tWe bottom of the 
stairs. • ’*• ■ <!■' bis* , ‘. f" ji »uui. 

“ I just want you to hear what this gbntteman says ,** replied 
Dodson, x* Pray y /go on , sir •*-* diApruceftll 1 andWscdlly proceed- 
ings, I think you said?” "•••*» '>*••<1 * * 

“ I did,”, said MrrPickwick, thoroughly "roused. “I said, sir, 
that of all the disgraceful and rascally proceedings that ever 
were attempted , this is the most so. I repeat it , sir.” 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


\ 


, , i >. if iff Hi ■ -;<> I 

, , op ^ WARWICK .. , eX j. -rwH 237 

“ You hear that , Mr. Wicks? ” said Dodson. ’ 1,1 
“ You, wasn’t forget these expressions, Mr. Jadkson?” said 

Fogg.,.. \ . r . v ' 4 n . vVA' \\ «v *»n\\ 

“ Perhaps you would like to call -us iwirtdietS, '^,”' l ^lW 
Dodson. “ Pray do, sir, if you feet disposed -U- tioW tpray do, isB ” 1 
“ I do,” said Mr. Pickwick. “ You arte swindlers. ” * 

“ Very good,” said Dodson. “ You can hear downy fhei^, I 
hope, Mr. Wicks?*’ • ■ 1 • * 

“ Oh yes , sir,” said Wicks. >■ • - 

“ You had better come up a step or two higher, if you cai’t,” 
added Mr. Fogg. . : • - " 

“Go on, sir;} do go on. You had better call os thieves, sir; 
or perhaps you would like to assault one of us. Pray do it , sir, 
if you would ; we will not make the smallest resistance. Pray do 
it, sir. ” !•» i ■■ 

As Fogg put himself very temptingly within the reach of 
Mr. Pickwick’? clenched fist , i there is little doubt that that geii- ; 
tleman would, have, complied with his earnest entreaty j but for ‘ 
the interposition of Sam, who, hearing the dispute, emerged 
frpqi the, office;, mwpted, the->stairt ,• and seized his master 1 by / 

thfl Mm,)/ Ml «'.t » «>i.> If Mil".''/ • In;:. C.IJ'I i • •" .. ' i" rji/' 

“ Ypujust. come avay*” said i Mr. Weller. .'“flattleddre doff' 
sfiujttlecpck’s a werygood ghroe, vbenycuan/’tttve shuttlecock 
and two. lawyers the battledores , in victo case it get's too exoifih 1 j 
to be pleasant. Come avayy sir. If. you Want t» ease your mittd/ / 
by blowing up somebody,: come out into the ' court dud blow up > 
me; but it’s raytber too expensive work to be carried on here.” 

And without the slightest ceremony, Mr. WoHdr hauled tiis 
master down the stairs, and down the court, 'and having sarely 
deposited him in Cornhill , fell behind , prepared to fellow whi- 
thersoever he should lead. 1 ‘ 

Mr. Pickwick walked on abstractedly,! crossed 1 'opposite the 
Mansion House y and bent his steps up Cbeapside. Sam began 
to wonder where they were going , when, bis master turned 
round , and said — . h •/ n > o . , . 

“^am^Iwull,ip>»WBediat*lytoiMr.iPerlBer’s.^' . 

“That’s just exactly the wery place i Wre ytm-oughl to have 
gonelast ni^^epliiedMEf^A^Jleft:>'ii i am mu »>., 

“ I think it is , Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

in fiffWil sii'Ml oJ i:< * 

“ Well, ,wpli#£am»” ropliedrMJvEickwidko ttwerwfll go there v 
at once; but first, as I have been rather ruffled ,**I should like a 
glass of ljr^ndy and water iwaiwpi, Sam.' Whete oan I haie'it, 
Sam?” ■ .• :|i, >1.1 ' .!. . !•> .H •• u. 

Mr. Weller’s knowledge of London was extensive and pecu- 
liar. He replied, without the slightest consideration — . 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



rHr // , *598 1 e&JTUtoK>bS PAVERS 

f ) io*«StttteiS(i odfirf <^<0^ te|ht4i»h8' dHCJJ- but van 

' ^toabaike'fricte'thei itof^hfaWthb bfik'as SHtotfe id 1 'the fire- 
place, ’cos there an’t no leg in the middle o’ the table, which 
/ X T 'ift Mothers M &, hnffUk wery^h^eitfent.”'’ '■ 1 ' J 

> j Mr. Pickwick observed his valet’s directions implicitly, and 
bidding SatodbltoWhlm; entered thetavern he had pointed out, 
where the hot brandy and water was speedily placed before him ; 
^White'Mr'.' Wellei*/ sfealed at a 'VeSpefctful distance j though at 
Js**l 4 the same table' w$tb his master, was accommodated Wilha pint > 
# * ’Of-ptortej*. ’ ' r » , «iU «. f 

,</ The room ' was owe of b Veiy homelydescription , and was ap- 

/'/ }'" parerrtly under the especial paWoftage of- stage eoachtnert : tor 
V {.r, several gentlemen , who had ail the appearance of belonging to 
f 1' that learned profession, were' drinking and smoking in the difr 
7j l ferent boxes. Among the number was one stout, bed-faced , 

: .-*• ft r elderly man in particular* seated in ah Opposite box, whb'at- 
f ](; traded Mr. Pickwick’s attention. The stout man was* smoking 
with great vehemence; hot between every half-dozen puffs , he 
took i his pipe from his mouth , and looked first at Mr. Welter 

< > and then at Mr. Pickwick. ■ Then he would bury in a quart pot , 
70 •~Yj' as much of his countenance as the dimensions' of the’ipiarb-pot 

admitted of its receiving, and take* another' took ! at Sam and 
Mr. Pickwick. Then he would take’ another half-dozetrpuflfs 
with an air of profound meditation , and look ht them again. 
f %i t And at last' the stout man , potting up his legs on 1 the seat , and 

< t f 7 /! leaning His back against the wall, began to puff at his pipe witl)- 
: J < out leaving off at all, and to stare through the smoke at the 

} new comers, as if he had made up his mind to see the most he 
i r - could of them. > ■ 

At first the evolutions of the stout man had escaped Mr. ! Wel- 
ler’s observation , but by degrees as he saw Mr. Pickwick’s eyes 
every now and then turning towards him , he began tc gaze in 
the same direction , ait the same time shading his eyes with his 
hand, as if he partially recognised the object before him , and 
Wished to make quite sure of its identity. His doubts were 
speedily dispelled, however; tor the stout mart’ having blown a 
thick* 'Otoud from' hib pipe,’ a hoarse; voice, like some strange 
effort of ventriloquism, emerged from beneath 11 the- Capacious 
shdwft whteh HaMBed his thrbat'«md C*»est i UUd &*Wly uttered 
these sounds — “ Vy, Sammy^’ t,iJu '***- ; V' 1 - : 

“ Who’s that , Sam ? ” inquired Mr. 1 PkfaW&kJ ' u ' r - 
i^WhyjiliwoulAi’t'M’-B^ieVed'ie^sir/’ replied Mrv Weller, 
with attortishiftd eybfli '^df^fheiOld ^tfnK nvi n n 
“ Old one? ” said Mr. Pickwick. “ Wliat old otid? ” ' :r 
“•My fathttr;- tSrJ” replied 1 Mr. 1 Welter. How’ am 'you , my 
ancient?” And with thfa'beaiartitol'ebmiittoh of flfial affection , 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF TWB PICRWJW CMJB. $39 

Mr. WelU$ fli*d<> room on, . Use seat he##. tem , tor the stout 
row » Whflia^Yi®ficeA.Rjpe in mgwjMf^ PPttin- band,To.great 

bito*-'/ . '(MM •)fli ’<1 Nl|.»l|fn ‘ilii III ui !-■< '•.■ • ,.... ■, ,|;ji! 

“ Vy, Sammy,”. saidU^.fatber^J/ I hen!f asm .you * fop .two 

; -y t. ! l> Jw ,:*iiM i;" 

■ have, ^iifioAmv? How’s 
rortbWbiflfftW^^'j viib- !*,.»•. ?r;*t i >lsv/ }*U6 vhmnri ><>:t - -,!•>•: • >; 

. yw wbat,.Sem»iyr»”hS»*d Mr. ! Weller senior, 

wMMwKb pojpinqitffiffl hismannar ; ; ! ;‘ 1 ‘ ibere never was a nicer 
woman as a widder, than that ’ere/second wentupb’ mine— a 
sjureet/e^ter she'Wes, Sammy, aad-eU,I can say, on her now, is, 
that ^shewns-such a» uncommon pleasant wndder, it’s a great 
pi^«^firiwn,chs»nged her condittoo. She don’t act as a vife, 

$STOffly>” VH^r. : h;« ; , vw. ..... ■ 

■iMJtlmt she,! though? inquired Mr. Weller junior. 

■ TblV/eldeejMr^Welleaf shooh his head, as lie replied with a 

hpnpe, too oAen# Sammy; I’ve done it once 
tflo flftep,, Tabes example by your. father, my boy, and be very 
eareW oT widder aU.younlito , specially if they’ve kept apublic 
hflqswstSemroy/v” and haying delivered this parental advice with 
«WfiwbftR,#^.Wjeltohi*empF4:e-filled his pipe from a Un box 
ho car^dMihWPiacbet . and^ lighting his fresh- Jdpe frtmi the ?c> v 
aahas.pfvtbhiftld we>» commenced smoking at a great rate, 
u > KBeg youB , pardon , sir,” he, said, renewing the subject , and 
addressing JHf,. Pickwiok , after a considerable pause, “ nothin’ 
wrsoual,, Xb9P©, sfrrl hope you han’tgot a widder, sir?” 

“ iNot.I,” replied Mr. Pickwick, laughing; and while Mr. 
Pickwh* bmghed, Sam Weller informed his .parent in a whisper, 
of the relation in which he stood towards that gentleman. 
wfrBflgyour pardon, sir,” said Mr. Weller senior, taking off 
his hat; I hope you’ve no fault to find with Sammy, sir ? ” — / . 

. ‘f None whatever,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

Wery glad to hear it, sir,” replied the old man; “I took a 
gppd.dpal o’ pains with his eddication , sir ; let him run in the / 
sheets ( wben bpwa&wery young , and shift for his-self. It’s the 
only,wsyjtomi8Hoa<bpy sharp, sir.” . . 

‘.‘. ; JUthec * d/PPgerous process, I should imagine,” said Mr. 

Piokw^k . withft stuito.. > . , 

• “ Jh(»y..iteithaft , i -added Mr. Weller; 

“ I got reglariy done the other day.” - - . 

“No!”said,tbe/£aU*er,t/ >,,.•<* y n ii •• 

tt i'didil’ Stedjthe son; and he proceeded to relate fo/gs few 
words as possible , how., he hack fallema ready, dupeto the stra- 
tagems of Job Trotter. 

Mr. Weller senior listened to.the tale .with the- most profound 
attention , and , at its termination, said — . . 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



240 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ Worn’t one a’ these chaps slim and tall with long hair, and 
the gift o’ the gab wery gallopin’ ? ” 

Mr. Pickwick did not quite understand the last item of de- 
scription, but, comprehending the first, said “ Yes,” at a venture. 

“ T’other’s a black-haired chap in mulberry livery, with a 
wery large head? ”. 

“ Yes, yes, he is,” said Mr. Pickwick and Sam, with great 
earnestness. 

“ Then I know where they are , and that’s all about it ,” said 
Mr. Weller ; “ they’re at Ipswich , safe enough , them two.” 

“ No ! ” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Fact,” said Mr. Weller, “ and Til tell you how I know it. 
I work an Ipswich coach now and then for a friend o’ mine. I 
worked down the wery day arter the night as you caught the 
rheumatiz, and at the Black Boy at Chelmsford — the wery place 
they’d come to — I took ’em up, right through to Ipswich, 
where the man servant — him in the mulberries — told me they 
was a goin’ to put up for a long time.” 

“ I’ll follow him,” said Mr. Pickwick; “ we may as well see 
Ipswich as any other place. I’ll follow him.” 

“ You’re quite certain it was them , governor? ” inquired 
Mr. Weller junior. 

“ Quite, Sammy, quite,” replied his father; “ for their appear^ 
ance is wery sing’ler ; besides that ’ere, I wondered to see the 
gen’lm’n so familiar with his servant ; and , more than that , as 
they sat in front , right behind the box , I heard ’em laughing , 
and saying how they’d done oldTireworks.” 1 

“ Old who?” said Mr. Pickwick. v 

“ Old Fireworks, sir; by which, I’ve no doubt, they meant 
you , sir.” 

There is nothing positively vile or atrocious in the appellation 
of “ old Fireworks ,” but still it is by no means a respectful or 
flattering designation. The recollection of all the wrongs he had 
sustained at Jingle’s hands, had crowded on Mr. Pickwick’s 
mind , the moment Mr. Weller began to speak : it wanted but a 
feather to turn the scale, and “ old Fireworks” did it. 

“ I’ll follow him,” said Mr. Pickwick , with an emphatic blow 
on the table. 

“ I shall work down to Ipswich the day arter to-morrow, sir,” 
said Mr. Weller the elder, “ from the Bull in Whitechapel ; and 
if you really mean to go , you’d better go with me.” 

“ So we had,” said Mr. Pickwick; “ very true; I can write 
to Bury, and tell them to meet me at Ipswich. We will go 
with you. But don’t hurry away, Mr. Weller ; won’t you take 
anything?” 

“ You’re wery good, sir,” replied Mr. W. , stopping short — 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF TUB PHJitWJC* ^ 

“ perhaps f spiaU glas? of brandy to diajn^. yQijr hp^^and 
success to Sammy, sir, wouldn’t be amiss.’’ , . n , ' /t ^j,, < 

“ Certainly not," replied Mr. Pickwick. “A glass ofbrafyiy } 

here-” . .... ... , / 

. T,be. brandy was brought : and Mr. Weller, after pulling ms 
hair to Mr. Pickwick, and nodding to Sam, jerked it dowp Jtjis < 
capacious throaLas if it had been a small thimble-full. ' 

“ Well done, father,” said Sam; “ take care, old fellow, or 
you’ll have a touch ofyour old complaint, the gout” 

“ I’ve found a sov’rin’ cure far that, Sammy,” replied Mr, 

Weller, setting down the glass. 

“ A sovereign cure for the. gout !” said Mr. Pickwick , hastily , 
producing bis note-book; “ what is it?” ■ 

“ Thegout, sir,” replied Mr. Weller, “ the gout is a complaint * 
as arises from too much ease and comfort. If ever you’re attacked 
with thegout, sir, jist you marry a widder as has got a good 
loud woice, with a decent notion of usin’ it, and you’ll never 
have the gout agin. It’s a capital prescription , sir. I takes it 
reg’lar, and Lean warrant it to drive away any illness as is caused 
by too much jollity.” Having imparted this valuable secret; 

Mr. Weller drained his glass once more , produced a laboured 
wink, sighed deeply, and slowly retired. 

“ Well , what do you think of what your father says , Sam ?” 
inquired Mr. Pickwick , with a smile. 

“Think, sir!” replied Mr. Weller; “why, I think' he’s the 
wictim o’ connubiality, as Blue Beard’s domestic chaplain said , •/ 
with a tear of pity, ven he buried him.” 

Tbere’waSfHo replying to this very apposite conclusion , and , 
therefore, Mr. Pickwick, after settling the reckoning , resumed f y 
his walk to Gray’s Inn. By the time he reached its secluded 
groves , .however, eight o’clock had struck, and the unbroken 
stream of gentlemen in muddy high-lows , soiled white hats, and 
rusty apparel , who were pouring towards the different avenues 
of egress , warned him that (he majority of the offices had closed 
for that day. • 

After climbing two pairs of steep and dirty stairs , he found his 
anticipations were realised. Mr. Perker’s “ outer door” was 
closed ; and the dead silence which followed Mr. Weller’s re- 
peated kicks thereat, announced that the officials had retired 
from business for the night. V 

“ This is pleasant , Sam,” said Mr. Pickwick; “i shouldn’t 
lose an , hour in seeing him ; I shall not be able to get one wink 
of sleep to-night, I know , unless 1 have tpq salisfeetiop of 
reflecting that I have confided this matter to at professional 
man.” 

* “Here’s an old ’ooman cornin’- up stairs ,.sir,”' replied 


4, *v A, y 

Digitized by C?0rogle 



242 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

Mr, Weller 5 “ p'raps she knows where we can find somebody. 

Hallo, old lady, vere’s Mr. Perker’s people?” 

“ Mr. Pecker’s people,” said a thin , miserable-looking old 
woman, stopping to recover breath after the ascent of the 
staircase; “ Mr. Perker’s people’s gone, and I’m a goin’ to do 
the office out.” 

“ Are you Mr. Perker’s servant?” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“ I am Mr. Perker’s laundress ,” replied the old woman. 

“ Ah,” said Mr. Pickwick , half aside to Sam , “ it’s a curious 
circumstance , Sam , that they call the old women in these inns , 
laundresses. I wonder what’s that for.” 

“ ’Cos they has a mortal awersion to washing anythin’, I sup- 
pose , sir,” replied Mr. Weller. 

“ I shouldn’t wonder,” said Mr. Pickwick , looking at the old 
wojnan , whose appearance as well as the condition of the ofiice , 
which she had by this time opened, indicated a rooted antipathy 
to the application of soap and water-, “ do you know where I can 
find Mr. Perker, my good woman ? ” 

“ No I don’t ,” replied the old woman , gruffly-, “ he’s out o’ 
town now.” 

“ That’s unfortunate ,” said Mr. Pickwick -, “ where’s his clerk 
— do you know?” 

“ Yes, I know where he is, but be wouldn’t thank me for 
telling you ,’’ replied the laundress. 

“ I have very particular business with him ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

<( Won’t it do in the morning ? ” said the woman. 

“ Not so well ,” replied Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Well, said the old woman , “ if it was anything very par- 
ticular, I was to say where be was , so I suppose there’s no harm 
in telling. If you just go the Magpie and Slump , and ask at the 
bar for Mr. Lowten, they’ll show you in to him, and he’s 
Mr. Perker’s clerk.” 

With this direction , and having been furthermore informed 
that the hostelry in question was situated in a court , happy in 
the double advantage of being in the vicinity of Clare Market , 
and closely approximating to the back of New Inn, Mr. Pickwick 
and Sam descended the rickety staircase in safety, and issued 
forth in quest of the Magpie and Stump. 

This favoured tavern , sacred to the evening orgies of Mr. 
Lowten and his companions, was what ordinary people would 
designate a public-house. That the landlord was a man of a money- 
making turn, was sufficiently testified by the fact of a small 
bulk-head beneath the tap-room, window, in size and shape not 
unlike a sedan-chair, being underlet to a mender of shoes : and 
that he was a being of a philanthropic mind, was evident from 
the protection afforded to a pie-man , who vended his delicacies 


Digitized by 


Google 




OF THE PICKWICK CLUB.’ 243 

without fear of interruption , on the very door-step. In the lower 
windows , which were decorated with curtains of a saffron hue , 
dangled two or three printed cards, bearing reference to De- 
vonshire cyder and Dantzic spruce , while a large black board , / 
announcing in white letters to an enlightened public , that" theta . 
were 500,000 barrels of double stout in the cellars ofthe'^Stafi- > 
lishment, left the mind in a state of hot unpleasing doubt and * 
uncertainty, as to the precise direction in the bowels of the earth , 
in which this mighty cavern might be supposed to extend. 
When we add, that the weather-beaten sign-board bore the 
half-obliterated semblance of a magpie intently eyeing a crooked 
streak of brown paint, which the neighbours had been taught 
from infancy to consider as the “ stump ,” we have said all that 
need be said , of the exterior of the edifice. 

On Mr. Pickwick’s presenting himself at the bar, an elderly 
female emerged from behind a screen therein , and presented 
herself before him. 

“ Is Mr. Lowten here , ma’am?” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Yes he is , sir,” replied the landlady. Here , Charley, show 
the gentleman in, to Mr. Lowten.” 

“ The gen’lm’n can’t go in , just now,” said a shambling pot- 
boy, with a red head , “ ’cos Mr. Lowten’s a singin’ a comic 
song , and he’ll put him out. He’ll be done d’rectly, sir.” 

The red-headed pot-boy had scarcely finished speaking , when 
a most unanimous hammering of tables , and jingling of glasses , 
announced that the song had that instant terminated ; and Mr. 
Pickwick , after desiring Sam to solace himself in the tap , suf- 
fered himself to be conducted into the presence of Mr. Lowten. 

At the announcement of “ a gentleman to speak to you , sir,” 
a puffy faced young man who filled the chair at the head of the 
table, looked with some surprise in the direction from whence 
the voice proceeded ; and the surprise seemed to be by no means 
diminished , when his eyes rested on an individual whom he had 
never seen before. 

“ 1 beg your pardon^ sir,” said Mr. Pickwick , “ and I am 
very sorry to disturb the other gentlemen , too , but I come on 
very particular business; and if you will suffer me to detain you 
at this end of the room for five minutes , I shall be very much 
obliged to you.” 

The puffy-faced young man rose , and drawing a chair close 
to Mr. Pickwick in an obscure corner of the room , listened atten- 
tively to his tale of woe. 

“ Ah ,” he said , when Mr. Pickwick had concluded, “ Dodson 
and Fogg — sharp.practice their’s — capital men of business is 
Dodson and Fogg, sir.” 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



244 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

Mr. Pickwick admitted the sharp practice of Dodson and 
Fogg , and Lowten resumed. 

“ Perker ain’t in town , and he won’t be neither, before the 
end of next week ; but if you want the action defended , and will 
leave the copy with me , I can do all that’s needful ’till he comes 
back.” 

“ That’s exactly what I came here for,” said Mr. Pickwick , 
handing over the document. “If anything particular occurs, 
you can write to me at the post-office , Ipswich.” 

“ That’sall right ,” replied Mr. Pecker’s clerk ; ahd then seeing 
Mr. Pickwick’s eye wandering Curiously towards the table , he 
added, “Will you join us, for half-an-hour or so? We are ca- 
pital Company bere to-night. There’s Samkin and Green’s ma- 
naging-clerk , and Smithers and Price’s chancery , and Pimkin 
and Thomas’s out 0’ door — sings a capital song , ne does — and 
Jack Bamber, and ever so many more. You’re come out of the 
country, I suppose. Would you like to join us?” 

Mr. Pickwick could not resist so tempting an opportunity of 
studying human nature. He suffered himself to be led to the 
table, where, after having been introduced to the company in 
due form , he was accommodated with a seat near the chairman , 
and called for a glass of his favourite beverage. 

A profound silence, quite contrary to Mr. Pickwick’s expecta- 
tion , succeeded. 

“ You don’t find this sort of thing disagreeable , 1 hope , sir? ” 
said his right-hand neighbour , a gehtleman in a checked shirt 
and Mosaic studs, with a cigar in his mouth. 

. “Notin the least,” replied Mr. Pickwick; “I like it very 
touch, although I am no smoker myself.” 

“ I should be very sorry to say I wasn’t ,” interposed another 
gentleman on the opposite side of the table. “ It’s board and 
lodging to me, is smoke.” 

Mr. Pickwick glanced at the speaker, and thought that if it 
were washing too , it would be all the better. 

Here there was another pause. Mr. Pickwick was a stranger, 
and his coming had evidently cast a damji upon the party. 

“ Mr. Grundy’s going to oblige the company with a song 
said the chairman. 

“ No he ain’t said Mr. Grundy. 

“ Why not?” said the chairman. 

“ Because I can’t ,” said Mr. Grundy. 

“ You had better say you won’t ,” replied the chairman. 

“ Well , then , I won’t retorted Mr. Grundy. Mr. Grundy’s 
positive refusal to gratify the company, occasioned another 
silence. 


Digitized by 


yGaagle 


OP THE PICKWICK CLUB. 245 

“ Won’t anybody enliven us?” said the chairman , despond- 
ingly. 

“ Why don’t you enliven us yourself, Mr. Chairman?” said a 
young man with a whisker, a squint , and an open shirt collar 
(dirty), from the bottom of the table. 

“ Hear! hear!” said the smoking gentleman , in the Mosaic 
jewellery. 

“ Because I only know one song, and I have sung it already, 
and it’s a fine of ‘ glasses round’ to sing the same song twice in 
a night,” replied the chairman. 

This was an unanswerable reply, and silence prevailed again. 

“I have heen to-night, gentlemen,” said Mr. Pickwick, 
hoping to start a subject which all the company could take part 
in discussing , “ I have been to-night in a place which you all 
know very well , doubtless , but which I have not been in before, 
for some years, and know very little of; I mean Gray’s Inn, 
gentlemen. Curious little nooks in a great place , like London , 
these old inns are.” 

“ By Jove,” said the chairman , whispering across the table to 
Mr. Pickwick , “ you have hit upon something that one of us , at 
least , would take upon for ever. You’ll draw old Jack Bamber 
out; he was never heard to talk about anything else but the Inns, 
and he has lived alone in them , till he’s half crazy.” 

The individual to whom Lowten alluded, was a little yellow 
high-shouldered man, whose countenance, from bis habit of 
stooping forward when silent , Mr. Pickwick had not observed 
before. He wondered though , when the old man raised his 
shrivelled face, and bent his bright grey eye upon him, with a 
keen inquiring look, that such remarkable features could have 
escaped his attention for a moment. There was a fixed grim 
smile perpetually on his countenance ; he leant his chin on a long 
skinny hand, with nails of extraordinary length ; and as he in- 
clined his head to one side , and looked keenly out from beneath 
his ragged grey eyebrows, there was a strange, wild sliness in 
bis leer, quite repulsive to behold. 

This was the figure that now started forward , and burst into 
an animated torrent of words. As this chapter has been a long 
one, however, and as the old man was a remarkable personage , 
it will be more respectful to him , and more convenient to us ? to 
let him speak for himself in a fresh one. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



246 


POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


* ; u ' . 

‘ • - 1 » - i n-.m u *■»*■/ ' *« ■!...• 

*t • !* 1' -r r l M I _ t . M . r * • * , ■ ■ ' ■ > * 

m chapter xxii; 

IN WHIUHTHE CUD 1 to AN LAUNCHES FORTH INTO HIS FAVOURITE THEME, AND 
f ' hit At® A STORY ABOUT A QUEER CLIENT* 

> ■. . v-t , n; <• * !• 

“ Aha ! ” said the old' than, a brief description of whose man- 
ner and appearance concluded the last chapter , “ Aha ! who 
was talking about' the Inns?'” 

“I was, sir," replied Mr. Pickwick — “I was observing 
What singular old places they are.” 

“ You !” said the old man, contemptuously — “ What do you ■ 
know of the time when young men shut themselves up in those 
lonely rooms, and read arid read, hour aftfer hour, and night after 
night , till their reason wandered beneath their midnight studies ; 
till their mental powers were exhausted; till morning’s light 
brought no freshness or health to them ; and they sank beneath 
the urfnatural devotion of their youthful energies to their dry old 
books ? Coming down to a later time , arid a very different day, 
what 'do you know of the gradual sinking beneath consumption, 
or the quick wasting of fever — the gfand' results of ‘life’ and 
dissipation — Which men have undergone in those same rooms? 
How many vairi pleadCrs for mercy ', do you think have turned 
away heart-sick'fro'm the lawyer’s office , to find a resting-place 
in the Thames , or a refuge in the gaol? They are no ordinary 
houses ', those. There is not a pannel in the old wainscotting, 
but what, if it were endowed with the powers of speech and me- 
mory , could start from the wall, and tell its tale of horror— the 
romance of life , sir , the romance of life. Common-place as they 
may seem now, I tell you they are strange old places, and 1 
would rather hear many a legend with a terrific-sounding name, 
than the true history of one old set of chambers.” 

There was something so odd in the old man’s sudden energy , 
and the subject which liad ; called it forth , that Mr. Pickwick 
was prepared with rio observation in reply ; and the old man 
checking bis impetuosity , and resriming the leer , which had 
disappeared during his previous excitement , said — 

“ Look at them in another light : their most common-place 
and least romantic : what fine places' of slow torture they are. 
Think of the needy man who' has spent his all, beggared himself, 
and pinched his friends , to enter the profession, which is des- 
tined never to yield a morsel of bread to him. The waiting — 
the hope — the disappointment — the fear — the misery — the 
poverty — the blight on his hopes , and end to his career — the 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 2-17 

suicide perhaps , or, better still, the shabby, slip-shod drunkard. 
Am I not right about them , eh? ” And the old man rubbed his 
hands, and leered as if in delight at having found another point 
of view in which to place his favourite subject. 

Mr. Pickwick eyed the oldman with great curiosity, and the 
remainder of the company smiled , and looked on in silence. 

“ Talk of your German universities,” said the little old man — 
“ Pooh , pooh ! there’s romance enough at home, without going 
half a mile for it; only people never think of it.” .• 

“ I never thought of the romance of this particular subject 
before , certainly ,” said Mr. Pickwick , laughing. 

“ To be sure you didn’t ,” said the little old man , “ of course 
not. As a friend of mine used to say to me , * What is there in 
chambers , in particular ? ’ . ‘ Queer old places ,’ said I. ‘ Not at 
all,’ said he. ‘Lonely,’ said I. ‘ Not a bit of it,’ said he. He 
died one morning of apoplexy, as he was going to open his 
outer door. Fell with his head in his own letter-box , and there 
he lay for eighteen months. Everybody thought he’d gone out 
of town.” 

“ And how was he found at last? ’’ inquired Mr. Pickwick, 

“ The benchers, determined to break his door open, as he 
hadn’t paid any rent for two years. So they did. Forced the 
lock ; and a very dusty skeleton in a blue coat , black knee-shorts , 
and silks, fell forward in the arms of the porter who opened 
the door. Queer, that. Rather, perhaps; rather, eh?” - And 
the little old man put his head more on one side, and rubbed 
his. hands with unspeakable glee. 

. “ I know another case ,” said the little old man , when his 
chuckles, had in some degree subsided — “ It occurred in 
Clifford’s Inn. Tenant of a top set — bad character — shut 
himself up in his bed-room closet, and took a dose of arsenie. 
The steward thought he had run away , opened the door , and 
put a bill up. Another man came , took the chambers, furnish- 
ed them , and went to live there. Somehow or other he couldn’t 
sleep — always restless and uncomfortable. ‘Odd,’ says he; 

‘ I’ll make the other room my bed-chamber , and this my sitting- 
room.’ He made the change , and slept very well at night , but 
suddenly found that somehow he couldn’t, read in the evening : 
he got nervous and uncomfortable, and used to be always snuff- 
ing his candles and staring about hfln. ‘ I can’t make this out ,’ 
said he , when he came home from the play one night, and was 
drinking a glass of cold grog , with his back to the wall , in order 
that be mightn’t be able to faney there was any one behind him 
—‘I can’t make it out,’ said be ; and just then his eyes rested 
on the little closet that had been always locked up , and a shud- 
der ran through his whole frame from top to- toe. ‘ I have felt 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



248 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

this Strange feeling before ,’ said he — ‘I cannot help thinking 
there’s something-wrong about that closet.’ He made a strong 
effort, plucked up his courage , shivered the lock with a blow or 
two of the poker, opened the door, and there, sure enough, 
standing bolt upright in the coigtr, was the last tenant, with 
a little bottle clasped firmly in h inland, and his face livid with 
the hue of a painful death.” As the little old man concluded , he 
looked round on the attentive faces of his wondering auditory 
with a smile of grim delight. 

“ What strange things these are you tell us of, sir,” said 
Mr. Pickwick, minutely scanning the old man’s countenance, by 
the aid of hiS glasses. 

“ Strange ! ” said the little old man — “ Nonsense ; you think 
them strange , because you know nothing about it. They are 
funny, but not uncommon.” 

“ Funny! ” exclaimed Mr. Pickwick, involuntarily. 

“ Yes, funny, are they not?” replied the little old man, with 
a diabolical leer ; and then ^without pausing for an answer, he 
continued — 

“ I knew another man— let me see — it’s forty years ago now 
—who took an old, damp, rotten set of chambers , in one of the 
most ancient Inns , that had been shut up and empty for years 
and years before. There were lots of old women’s stories about 
the place , and it certainly was very far from being a cheerful 
one ; but he was poor, and the rooms were cheap, and that would 
have been quite a sufficient reason for him , if they had been ten 
times worse than they really were. He was obliged to take some 
mouldering fixtures that were on the place , and , among the. 
rest , was a great lumbering wooden press for papers , with large 
glass doors, and a green curtain inside; a pretty useless thing 
for him , foe he had no papers to put in it *, and as to his clothes, 
he carried them about with him, and that wasn’t very hard work, 
either. Well, he had moved in all his furniture— it wasn’t quite 
a truck -full— and sprinkled it about the room, so as to make 
the four chairs look as much like a dozen as possible , and was 
sitting down before the fire at night, drinking the first glass of 
two gallons of whiskey, he-hadi ordered on credit, wondering 
whether it would ever he paid for, and if so, in how many years’ 
time, when his eyes encountered the glass doors of the wooden 
press. ‘Ah!’ says he — ‘If I hadn’t been obliged to take that 
ugly article at the old broker’s valuation , I might have got 
something comfortable for the money. I’ll tell you what it is , 
old fellow,’ he said, speaking aloud to the press, just because he 
had got nothing else to speak to — ‘ If it wouldn’t cost more to 
break up your old carcase , than it would ever be worth after* 
wards, I’d have a fire out of you, in Less than no time.’ He had 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 249 

hardly spoken the words, when a sound resembling a faint groan 
appeared to issue from the interior of the case. It startled him 
at first , but thinking , on a moment’s reflection, that it must be 
some young fellow in the next chambers , who had been dining 
out , he put his feet on the fender, and raised the poker to stir 
the lire. At that moment , the sound was repeated : and one of 
the glass doors slowly opening , disclosed a pale and emaciated 
figure in soiled and worn apparel , standing erect in the press. 
The figure was tall and thin, and the countenance expressive of 
care and anxiety but there was something in the hue of the 
skin , and gaunt and unearthly appearance of the whole form , 
which no being of this world was ever seen to wear. ‘ Who are 
you?’ said the new tenant , turning very pale , poising the poker 
in his hand, however, and taking a very decent aim at the 
countenance of the figure— 4 Who are you ? ’ * Don’t throw that 
poker at me ,’ replied the form — ‘ If you hurled it with ever so 
sure an aim, it would pass through me, without resistance, and 
expend its force on the wood behind. 1 am a spirit.’ ‘And, 
pray, what do you want here ? ’ faltered the tenant. ‘ In this 
room ,’ replied the apparition , ‘ my wordly ruin was worked , 
and I and my children beggared. In this press , the papers in 
a long, long suit, which accumulated for years, were deposited. 
In this room , when I had died of grief, and long-deferred hope, 
two wily harpies divided the wealth for which I had contested 
during a wretched existence , and of which , at last , not one 
farthing was left for my unhappy descendants. I terrified them 
from the spot , and since that day have prowled by night — the 
only period at which I can re-visit the earth — about the scenes 
of my long-protracted misery. This apartment is mine : leave it 
to me.’ ‘ If you insist upon making your appearance here ,’ said 
the tenant , who had had time to collect his presence of mind 
during this prosy statement of the ghost’s — ‘ I shall give up pos- 
session with the greatest pleasure ; but I should like to ask you 
one question , if you will allow me.’ ‘ Say on ,’ said the appari- 
tion, sternly. ‘ Well ,’ said the tenant, * I don’t apply the obser- 
vation personally to you , because it is equally applicable to ail 
the ghosts 1 ever heard of ; but it does appear to me , somewhat 
inconsistent , that when you have an opportunity of visiting the 
fairest spots of earth — for I suppose space is nothing to you — - 
yeu should always return exactly to the very places where you 
have been most miserable.’ ‘ Egad , that’s very true; I never 
thought of that before,’ said the ghost. ‘ You see, sir,’ pursued 
the tenant, ‘ this is a very uncomfortable room. From the ap- 
pearance of that press , I should be disposed to say that it is not 
wholly free from bugs; and 1 really think you might find much 
more comfortable quarters : to say nothing of the climate of 


Digitized by 


Google 



250 POSTHUMOUS ‘ PAVERS 

li»n 40 QiviN(bMibiis astremaly/disagreeabW/'* Youare-very right, 
siir,^(SRildithe,ghoa^, pairirip])*# bwwnpatruck Wie MH-fetoWp I’ll 
t# jichaDgb iof« ObMlireeiiy Aew and 1 , in faebydte'begaiy-to varnish as 
he spoke : his legs , indeed, had quite disappeared.* ^ Ahd if, sir,’ 
sajdtibft^aaaatytwUlngdfted him] MfyouwouM have-lhe good- 
'Heas-fcoi suggest bkthfesJdiepdadiw'dndligetrtliiben who are now 
eagagertinibaubtiBgl old empty hbbsest, that they might be much 
more conrf^Uddel etettvberiej .you wiH-confer a very great benefit 
oasocifity^'fl) Wilk^(rapliedrtheightt8t-;-‘'*miMubt be doti fellows 
— VieryduUrfclleiwsyviarieedJ; il-fcaiteiniaginehew wecdh have 
beenisostupiifc ’'j IWitfethede woitdBj 'thle Spirit disappeared ; and 
what: is rather. remarkablo ^adctotttmoMitnah y wkh a shrewd 
laokfaund the tabLai, “dienevereaB#e ftadk againi’*- *- •"• 
v ♦* Thatipin’t bad, il itfs true,” Biiddhe-maa i» the Mosaic studs, 

lighting a fresh cigar. 

exclaimed the old man 9 With - a) look ofexcesrite con- 
tempt j I suppose ,” headded ytorningto Eowten , “ he’ll say 
next, that my story aboutittte>qa6er<jliCnt we hid ] when I was 
inanaltoimey’s office , is tie t -tmey dither*-^! i shouldn’t wonder." 

dMahan’it-venture to say anything at attabbut'it,- seeing thatl 
never .heard theatery,” observed! the owner of the- Mosaic deco- 
rqttensv- •) ii >-.if <>n . .•••> iir.d 1 ‘• •i " ■ 

^ I . Wish iyou- would repeat ifyisir/’-ssid'Mr. Pickwick-. 
i- u-16 Ab(p d»y’’i saUtLonfteny “ nobody has> heard it'but me, and 
I-tammufty tfyrgottoD&’t : ••*** ; *.»•••• ■ 

The old mntndooked round the table, and leered more horribly 
than every as if- in triumph, at the attention which was depicted 
in every faepfc Then nibbing his ehin with bis hand, and looking 
up to the oeiling as if to recal the circumstances to his memory, 
betbegan/as-followB 

■ ,TWi C *)-• 1 < 

THE OLD MAN’S TALE ABOUT THE QUBEh CLTENT. 

, ; f u >i t< \- v ♦>.. < •?. • ,-y ■>'-**. . • ; : ' 

■f‘‘‘ iT'inattere little,’-’ ! said the old man, “ where , or how, I 
picked up this brief history: IFXwefe to relate it in the 'order in 
which: -it/ reached he y l- ehohld commence hi the middle , and 
wheal had armed at the conclusion y ge back' for a beginning. 
It-isienOugh fob sneito say thifc some ofiits circumstances passed 
heforemy owm eyes] < for ) the remainder -I dsnow- them to have 
happened^ abd theretaresnme persons yet living , who will re- 
member tbenvbutitonwell, >i • 1 < • 

«i<In the BortrtjgbiHigh (Street y < near Saidt -George’sChurch , 
and ©retire same Side) of the wstypstandsy as-tnost people know, 
the sisdltesfrofbto debtors’ prisons--* -the Marshalsea. Although 
in-taterUimtsiit has tboen-a very different place from the sink of 
filth and dirt it once was , even its improved condition holds out 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 351 

but little temptation to l the «xhr&vdgant 'or> ooftsulation'-to'the 
improvident. .ThecoftoeomediriQHifeak'fp #dod-a -yirdfior air 
and exerdsei» Mewgatey as tbeHnsoWtotnifiebtot' in^he'Mar- 
shalseaPrisoBj ,, l.«;tl .hvibiu . sr% * < •'*•••* •• 

“ It may.be my . fancy, on it maif betlhatTbannot separate the 
place from the oil recoltectioas aasoeiated WitA itybafr thisyrart 
of London I cannot bear^ Tbe street iiS brea dy the ‘ritopsare 
spacious,, the noise of-passfegorebiriesj /rite- fobtstep&fof a per- 
petual stream of people — lalltbe) busy doimdSi of tf-aflkr , resound 
in it fimm morn i to (midnight ^iiit tho ‘Streets arbtthd' are mean 
and close ; poverty>anid debaaohery-tierffest&rlhg jb the crowded 
alleys 5 wato-andmisfbrteme are > pent' up in themarrow prison ; 
an air of gloom- and m dressiness/ seems, in' tny 'Oyds at least, 
to hang about the. scenes and bo impart te it O' squalid and 
sickly hue. . v 

“ Many eyes, that base long since been closed in the grave, 
have looked round! upqn> that scene.' lightly enough, when enter- 
ing the gate oC theolcb Marstaalsea Prison for the first time : for 
despair seldom cosies with .the first severe shock ofmisfortune. 
A man haa confidence in untried > friends, be 'remembers the 
many offers of nervier so. freelymade by htS’bood companions 
when he wanted them not; he has hope — the hope of happy 
inexperience -r-anfi however^hfl' may bend beneath the < first 
shock , it springs, op in. bis bosom y andflourisfees these for a brief 
space, until it droops beneath the blight of disappointment and 
neglect. How soon have those sanmeycadSeptyisimketrin the 
bead, glared from faces wasted with famine; and sallow from 
confinement, in days when it was no figure df speech 'to say 
that debtors rotted in prison , with no hope of release , and no 
prospect of liberty! The atrocity in its ftiH'eitenttmp- longer 
exists , but there is enough of it left , to give rise to occurrences 
that make the heart bleed. .<■ ■< ■<> . 

“ Twenty years ago , that pavement was worn with the foot- 
steps of a mother and child , who, day by day, sosarelyias the 
morning came , presented them drives at ; the i prison gate $ often 
after a night of restless misery and<aAxibu»thoughte , were they 
there.afull hour too soonyaad then the yobng mother furnihg 
meekly away,- would lead; the' child: to the old-bridge ; (and ‘raising 
him in her arms to shewhimthe glistening water; 'tinted with 
the light of the moming’ssan j' andistimog with athtbe-bustling 
preparations for business and pleasure -that' that rivers (presents at 
that early hour, endeavoiffi to interest his thoughts in -the objects 
before him. But she woohhquiokly -tot tumi'downy anti hiding 
her face in hershawl , giwe-vent to the-teart'thatf blinded: her, for 
no expression of interest or amusement- lighted up-him thin, and 
sickly face. His recollections were few enough , but they were all 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



252 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

of one kind — all connected with the poverty and misery of his 
parents. Hour after hour, had he sat on his mother’s knee , and 
with childish sympathy watched the tears that stole down her 
face, and then crept quietly away into some dark corner, and 
sobbed himself to sleep. The hard realities of the world , with 
many of its worst privations — hunger and thirst , and cold and 
want — had all come hom.e to him, from the first dawn ings of 
reason ; and though the form of childhood was there , its light 
heart, its merry laugh, and sparkling eyes were wanting. 

“ The father and mother looked on upon this, and upon each 
other, with thoughts of agony they dared not breathe in words. 
The healthy, strong-made man , who could have borne almost 
any fatigue of active exertion, was wasting beneath the close con- 
finement and unhealthy atmosphere of a crowded prison. The 
slight and delicate woman was sinking beneath the combined 
effects of bodily and mental illness ; the child’s young heart was 
breaking. 

“ Winter came, and with it Weeks of cold and heavy rain. 
The poor girl had removed to a wretched apartment close to the 
spot other husband’s imprisonment : and though the change had 
beep rendered necessary by their increasing poverty, she was 
happier now, for she was nearer him. For two months , she and 
her little companion watched the opening of the gate as usual. 
One day she failed to come , for the first time. Another morning 
arrived , and she came alone. The child was dead. 

“ They little know, who coldly talk of the poor man’s bereave- 
ments, as a happy release from pain to the departed, and a 
merciful relief from expense to the survivor — they little know, 
I say, what the agony of those bereavements is. A silent look of 
affection. and regard when all other eyes are turned coldly away 
r— the consciousness that we possess the sympathy and affection 
of one being when all others have deserted us— is a hold , a stay, 
a comfort in the deepest affliction , which no wealth could 
purchase , or power bestow. The child had sat at his parents’ 
feet for hours together, with his little hands patiently folded in 
each othpr, and his thin wan face raised towards them. They had 
seen him pine away, from day to day; and though his brief 
existence had been a joyless bne , and he was now removed 
to that .peace and< rest which, child as he was, he had never 
known. in this world, they were his parents, and his loss sunk 
deep into their souls. 

“It was plain to those who looked upon the mother’s altered 
face that death must soon close the scene of her adversity and 
trial. Her husband’s fellow prisoners shrunk from obtruding on 
his grief and misery, and left to himself alone the small room he 
bad previously occupied in common with two companions. She 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 253 

shared it With him : and lingering on without pain, but without 
hope, her life ebbed slowly away. 

“ She had fainted one evening in her husband's arms, and he 
had borne her to the open window, to revive her with the air, 
when the light of the moon falling full upon her face, shewed 
him a change upon her features, which made him stagger beneath 
her weight, like a helpless infant. 

“ ‘ Set me down , George,” she said faintly. He did so , and 
seating htmself beside her, covered his face with his hands, and 
hurst into tears. 

“ ‘ It is very hard to leave you , George ,’ she said , 4 but it’s 
God’s will , and you niust bear it for my sake. Oh! how I thank 
him for having taken our boy. He is happy, and in heaven 
now. What would he have done here , without his mother? ’ 

. “‘You shall not die, Mary, you shall not die,’ said the 
husband , starting up. He paced hurriedly to and fro , striking 
his head with his clenched fists ; then reseating himself beside 
her, and supporting her in his arms , added more calmly, 4 Rouse 
yourself, my dear girl — pray, pray do. You will revive yet.’ 

44 4 Never again, George ; never again’ — said the dying woman. 

4 Let them lay me by my poor boy now ; but. promise me, that if 
ever you leave this dreadful place , and should grow rich , you 
will have us removed to some quiet country churchyard , a long , 
long way off — very far from here , where we can rest in peace. 
Dear George, promise me you will.’ ■' 

44 4 1 do, I do’— said the man, throwing himself passionately 
on his knees before her. 4 Speak to me , Mary, another word ; 
one look — but one — ’ 

44 He ceased to speak : for the arm that clasped his neck , 
grew stiff and heavy. A deep sigh escaped from the wasted 
form before him ; the lips moved, and a smile played upon the 1 
face, but the lips were pallid , and the smile faded into a rigid 
and ghastly stare. He was alone in the world. 

44 That night , in the silence and desolation of his miserable 
room, the wretched man knelt down 'by the dead body of his 
wife , and called on God to witness a dreadfbl oath', that from 
that hour* he devoted himself to revenge her death and ' that of 
his child ; that from thenceforth to the' last monfteht 6f hiS life, 
his whole energies should be directed; to thtsoiie<objefct; that his 
revenge should be protracted -and terrible 5 that his hatred shbuld 
be undying and unextinguishable ; and should hunt its; object 
through the world. ‘ ■■ 

44 The deepest despair, and passion scarcely human, had made 
_ such fierce ravages on his face and form , in that one night , that 
his companions in misfortune shrunk affrighted from him as he 
passed by. His eyes were bloodshot and heavy, his face a deadly 


Digitized by v^,ooQle 



354 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

white, and his body bent a» if with age. He bad bitten his 
under ilip nearly through iw the violencfe of his mental suffering, 
and lint blood t whidr ; had -ftowed-'frOm the WoUnd had trickled 
down hiSetorn ,ahdistained"h» shirt and neckerchief. No tear, 
or Sound of complaint escaped Mm; but the unsettled took , and 
disordered Uaste witir Which tie- paced up and down the yard , 
denoted the 'fwerWhioh wate bur riing within. 

“It was ‘necessary that hi&'Wife^ body 1 Should be removed 
firom>the prisoB ^withoutdtiay. 'He received the comrrltinication 
with perfect calmness : , and acquiesced in its propriety. Nearly 
all the inmates of the prison had assembled to witness its re- 
moval; they fell back mi either side when the widower ap- 
peared; he walked hurriedly forward, and stationed himself, 
alone, in a little vailed i area etose’tothe lodge gate, from whence 
the crowd, with an instinctive feeling of delicacy, had retired. 
Therude coffin was borne slowly forward on men’s shoulders. 
A dead silence pervaded the throng , broken only by the audible 
lamentations of the women , and the shuffling steps of the 
bearers on the stone pavement. They reached the spot where 
the bereaved, husband stood : and stopped. He laid his hand 
uponthe coffin , an^ mechanically adjasnngthe pall with which 
it wa» eovened y motioned them onwards. The turnkeys in the 
prison tabby-took toff their hats as it passed through, and in An- 
other. moment) the' heavy gate doBed 1 behind' it: He looked va- 
cantly'Upoili'thpwrtOTdv and fell heavily to the ground. 

.“ Althoaghifbnmany weeks after this , he was watched night 
and day ; in!<tbei' wildest ravings of fever, neither the con- 
sciousness < of hfe 'toes , nor the recollection of the vow he had 
made , ev*riteft him for a moment. Scenes changed before his 
eyes, plac8iSucoeeded place, and event followed event, in all 
the hurry of delirinin ; but they were all connected in some way 
with the great object of his mind. He was sailing over a bound- 
less expanse-of sea, with a blooehred sky above, and the angry 
waters lashed into fury beneath , boiling and eddying up, on 
every side. There was another vessel before them , toiling and 
labouring in the bawling storm ; her canvass fluttering in ribbons 
from the mast /and her -deck : thronged with figures who were 
lashed to thei sides, over which huge waves every instant burst, 
sweeping away-soate devoted creatures into the foaming sea. 
Onward they bore , amidst 1 the roaring mass of water, with a 
speed, and> farce which nothihg could resist; and striking the 
stern of, the tfeireinebt vessel; crushed her, beneath their keel. 
From, the huge i whirl pool which the sinking wreck occasioned , 
arose a ahriek so loud and shrill — the death-cry of a hundred 
drowning wretches, blended into one fierce yell — that it rung 
far above the war-cry of the elements, and echoed, and re- 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 255 

echoed till it seemed to.pjerfieaic, sky* and ocean.-, But whatwas 
that — that old, grey-head thaticose above, thet water’s surfebe 
and with ( lopks of agopy, and screams faf«a*Jyfeuffetodlwifii the 
waves? 6ne look,, and he had. sprung from ithe veBset's side^ 
and with vigorous strokes was swimming towardsil.* He ra*iohed 
it- r he was close upon 4. They t weiAif-features/ The ohbman 
saw him coming, and, yaiply strove 4o,elucte /his grasp. But he 
clasped him tight , and t dragged him i beneath ithewater.'/Diwn , 
down with. hih 1 » i»ftY fathoms deep; i to 1 fikuggles'grew>fainter 
and fainter, until tbeywhoUy ceased., iHe-waaidead;' he had 
killed him, and had, 1^ Ids o«th. i i -.i. a. « ,<*>«!;:. * 

“ He was traversing* the scorching sands of almighty desert, 
barefooted and alone., The sand choked andiblinded him ; its, fine 
thin grains entered the very pores of his skin.,, and irritated him 
almost to madness. Gigantieraassesofthesameniaterial,- carried 
forward by the wind , and, shone' through, by the) 'burning sun , 
stalked in , the distance Idle piilars of, living fire. The hobestof 
men, who had perished in, the dreary. waste , lay scattered. at 
his feet ; a fea^ul light felhqp everything around:; ahdiso-footas 
the eye could reach r nothing hot objects of dread aud> horror 
prese^d thomsplvcs. sVainfy striving, to* utterua cry >ottBi*om 
with his , tongue cleaying h^hw, mouthy he rusned iriadlyfo?ward. 
Armed with sopernaturalstrangth-yhe waded through the sands 
until exhausted with fattens and thirsty he fell sensekssron-ttte 
earth. What fragrant coolness revived him ;,what gushing>sotmd 
was that,? Water ! It was indeed* well $; and, the oleamfresh 
stream nyas, running at his feet. He drank/ deeply. iof tty and 
throwing his aching limbs upon the bank, sudk-isto. a -delicious 
trance. The sound of approaching footsteps, routed ihim. -An 
old grey-headed man tottered forward to slake his burning, thirst. 
It was Ac again* Hn wound his arms round tbeoldmlanr’r body, 
and held him back* He struggled in powerful iCOovuteieDs,' and 
shrieked for water — for but one. drop of water to savehis life. 
But be held the old man firmly, and watched his agontes-with 
greedy, .eyes; and when his Idelesft boadrfell forwarAon'his 
bosom ,. he rolled the corpse from him wit&hkffeeti os H >, t .iV 
“When the fever left him,, tmdponscteusness Faturnddyhe 
awoke; to .find himself rich and- freeu, to heaF ,that <liG'PhrdBt 

who, would h a VP let, him.-dieift gadr-rtn^M/ywho guiefjM 

those who, were .far dear^f tp IdmutliaBibis ow»ifc^i*d4riee^dk' 
of want.aud, the sickness ofhesrt lhatjmetli<d»e (aBiiiOti«ute^' 
bad been (found deed in his bed of down* tkahadall. the heart 
to leave hisspn a beggar, but priwdievaniaf/hkuliealth'iimd 
strengths he had .put. off the act-till itowaantoodatepdnd. now 
might gnash his teeth in the .other, world s at the thought! itf /the 
wealth his remissness had left bim. He woke? to this, and he 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



266 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

woke to more : to recollect the purpose for which he lived, and 
to remember that his enemy was his wife’s own father — the 
man who had cast him into prison, and who, when his daughter 
and her child sued at his feet for mercy, had spurned them from 
his door. Oh , how he cursed the weakness that prevented him 
from being up , and active, in his scheme of vengeance! 

“ He caused himself to be carried from the scene of his loss 
and misery, and conveyed to a quiet residence on the sea coast 
— not in the hope of recovering his peace of mind or happiness, 
for both were fled for ever ; but to restore his prostrate energies, 
and meditate on his darling object. And here , some evil spirit 
cast in his way the opportunity for his first, most horrible re- 
venge. 

“ It was summer time ; and wrapped in his gloomy thoughts, he 
would issue from his solitary lodgings early in the evening, and 
wandering along a narrow path beneath the cliffs to a wild and 
lonely spot that had struck his fancy in his ramblings, seat him- 
self on some fallen fragments of the rock, and burying his face 
in his hands, remain there for hours — sometimes until night 
had completely closed in , and the long shadows of the frown- 
ing cliffs above h%head , cast a thick black darkness on every 
object near him. 

“ He was seated here, one calm evening in his old position, 
now and then raising his head, to watch the flight of a seagull, 
or carry his eye along the glorious crimson path , which com- 
mencing in the middle of the ocean , seemed to lead to its very 
verge where the sun was setting, when the profound stillness ol 
the spot was broken by a loud cry for help ; he listened , doubtful 
of his having heard aright, when the cry was repeated with even 
greater vehemence than before , and , starting to his feet , he 
hastened in the direction from whence it proceeded. 

“ The tale told itself at once : some scattered garments lay 
on the beach; a human head was just visible above the waves at 
a little distance from the shore ; and an old man , wringing his 
hands in agony, was running to and fro, shrieking for assistance. 
The invalid, whose strength was now sufficiently restored, threw 
Off his coat, and rushed towards the sea , with the intention of 
plunging in , and dragging the drowning man a-shore. 

“ ‘ Hasten here , sir, in God’s name ; help, help, sir, for the 
love of Heaven. He is my son , sir, my only son,’ said the old 
man , frantically, as he advanced to meet him. ‘ My only son, 
sir, and he is dying before his father’s eyes.’ 

“ At the first word the old man uttered, the stranger checked 
himself in his career, and, folding his arms, stood perfectly mo- 
tionless. 

“ ‘ Great God ! ’ exclaimed the old man, recoiling — ‘ Heyling ! ’ 


Digitized by 


Google 



257 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 

“ The stranger smiled , and was silent. 

“ ‘ Heyling ! ’ said the old man , wildly — ‘ My boy, Heyling, 
my dear boy, look , look j ’ and , gasping for breath , the miser- 
able father pointed to the spot where the young* man was strug- 
gling for life. 

“ ‘ Hark! ’ said the old man— > ‘ He cries once more. He is 
alive yet Heyling, save him , save him.’ 

“ The stranger smiled again , and remained immovable as a 
statue. , 

“ ‘ I have wronged you,’ shrieked the old man, falling on his 
knees, and clasping his hands together — ‘Be revenged 5 take 
my all, my life; cast me into the water at your feet, apd, if 
human nature can repress a struggle, 1 will die, without stir- 
ring hand or foot. Do it, Heyling , do it , but save my boy 5 he is 
so young, Heyling, so young to die.’ 

“ ‘ Listen,’ said the stranger, grasping the old man fiercely 
by the wrist — ‘ I will have life for life, and here is one. My 
child died before his father’s eyes, a far more agonising and 
painful death than that young slanderer of his sister’s worth is 
meeting while I speak. You laughed — laughed in yojir daugh- 
ter’s face, where death had already set his hand — at our suffer- 
ings, then. What think you of them now ? See there, see there.’ 

“ As the stranger spoke, he pointed to the sea. A faint cry 
died away upon its surface : the last powerful struggle of the 
dying man agitated the rippling waves for a few seconds : and 
the spot where he had gone, down into his early grave, was un- 

distinguishable from the surrounding water. 

* * * * * * 

“ Three years had elapsed , when a gentleman alighted from 
a private carriage at the door of a' London attorney, then well 
known to the public as a man of no great nicety in his profes- 
sional dealings, and requested a private interview on business 
of importance. Although evidently not past the prime of life, 
his face was pale, haggard, and dejected *, and it did not require 
the acute perception of the man of business , to discern at a 
glance, that disease or suffering had done more to work a 
change in his appearance , than the mere hand of time could 
have accomplished in twice the period of his whole life. 

‘“I wish you to undertake some legal business for me,’ said 
the stranger. 

“ The attorney bowed obsequiously, and glanced at a large 
packet which the gentleman carried in his hand. His visiter ob- 
served the look , and proceeded. 

“ ‘ It is no common business ,’ said he ; ‘ nor have these pa- 
pers reached my hands without long trouble and great expense.’ 

“ The attorney cast a still more anxious look at the packet : 

I. 17 


Digitized by 


Google 



258 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

and his visiter, untying the string that bound it, disclosed a 
quantity of promissory notes, with some copies of deeds, and 
other documents. 

“ ‘ Upon these papers,’ said the client , * the man whose name 
they bear, has raised , as you will see , large sums of money, for 
some years past. There was a tacit understanding between him 
and the men into whose hands they originally went — and from 
whom I have by degrees purchased the whole , for treble and 
quadruple their nominal value — that these loans should be from 
time to time renewed , until a given period had elapsed. Such an 
understanding is nowhere expressed. He has sustained many 
losses of late ; and these obligations accumulating upon him at 
once , would crush him to the earth.’ 

“ ‘ The whole amount is some thousands of pounds,’ said the 
attorney, looking over the papers. 

“ ‘ It is,’ said the client. 

“ ‘ What are we to do ? ’ inquired the man of business. 

“ ‘ Do ! ’ replied the client , with sudden vehemence — ‘ Put 
every engine of the law in force , every trick that ingenuity can 
devise and rascality execute ; fair means and foul ; the open op- 
pression of the law, aided by all the craft of its most ingenious 
practitioners. I would have him die a harassing and lingering 
death. Ruin him , seize and sell his lands and goods , drive him 
from house and home , and drag him forth a beggar in his old 
age , to die in a common gaol.’ 

“ ‘ But the costs , my dear sir , the costs of all this ,’ reasoned 
the attorney, when he had recovered from his momentary sur- 
prise — ‘ If the defendant be a man of straw, who is to pay the 
costs, sir?,’ 

“ ‘ Name any sum ,’ said the stranger, his hand trembling so 
violently with excitement , that he could scarcely hold the pen 
he seized as he spoke — * Any sum , and it is yours. Don’t be 
afraid to name it , man. I shall not think it dear, if you gain my 
object.’ 

“ The attorney named a large sum , at hazard , as the advance 
he should require to secure himself against the possibility of 
loss ; but more with the view of ascertaining how far his client 
was really disposed to go, than with any idea that he would 
comply with the demand. The stranger wrote a cheque upon his 
banker, for the whole amount , and left him. 

“ The draft was duly honoured , and the attorney, (inding that 
his strange client might be safely relied upon , commenced his 
work in earnest. For more than two years afterwards, Mr. 
Heyling would sit whole days together, in the office , poring over 
the papers as they accumulated , and reading again and again , 
his eyes gleaming with joy, the letters of remonstrance , the 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 259 

prayers for a little delay, tbe representations of the certain ruin 
in which the opposite party must be involved , which poured in , 
as suit after suit, and process after process , were commenced. 
To all applications for a brief indulgence , there was but one 
reply — the money must be paid. Land , house , furniture , each 
in its turn , was taken under some one of the numerous execu- 
tions which were issued ; and the old man himself would have 
been immured in prison had he not escaped tbe vigilance of the 
officers, and fled. * 

“ The implacable animosity of Heyling, so far from being sa- 
tiated by the success of his persecution , increased a hundred-fold 
with the ruin he inflicted. On being informed of the old man’s 
flight , bis fury was unbounded. He gnashed bis teeth with rage , 
tore the hair from his bead , and assailed with horrid impreca- 
tions the men who had been entrusted with the writ. He was 
only restored to comparative calmness by repeated assurances of 
the certainty of discovering the fugitive. Agents were sent in 
quest of him , in all directions ; every stratagem that could be in- 
vented was resorted to, for the purpose of discovering his place 
of retreat } but it was all in vain., Half a year had passed over, 
and be was still undiscovered. 

“ At length, late one night, Heyling , of whom nothing had 
been seen for many weeks before , appeared at his attorney’s 
private residence, and sent up word that a gentleman wished to 
see him instantly. Before the attorney, who had recognised his 
voice from above stairs , could order the servant to admit him , 
he had rushed up the staircase, and entered the drawing-room, 
pale and breathless. Having closed the door, to prevent being 
overheard, he sunk into a chair, and said , in a low voice — 

“ ‘ Hush ! I have found him at last.’ 

“‘No!’ said the attorney— ‘Well done, my dear sir; well 
done.’ 

“ ‘ He lies concealed in a wretched lodging in Camden Town,’ 
said Heyling — 4 Perhaps it is as well , we did lose sight of him , 
for he has been living alone there , in the most abject misery, all 
the time , and he is poor — very poor.’ 

“ ‘ Very good ,’ said the attorney— * You will have the caption 
made to-morrow, of course?’ 

“ ‘ Yes,’ replied Heyling. ‘Stay ! No! The next day. You are 
surprised at my wishing to postpone it,’ he added, with a ghastly 
smile •, ‘ but I had forgotten. The next day is an anniversary in his 
life : let it be done then.’ * 

“‘Very good,’ said the attorney — 4 Will you write down 
instructions for the officer?’ 

“ 4 No ; let him meet me here, at eight in the evening, and 
I will accompany him myself. ’ 


\ 


Digitized by 


Google 



560 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ They met on the appointed night, and, hiring a hackney- 
coach, directed the driver to stop at that corner of the old Pancras 
road, at which stands the parish workhouse. By the time they 
alighted there , it was quite dark ; and , proceeding by the dead 
wall in front of the Veterinary Hospital , they entered a small bye 
street, which is, or was at that time , called Little College Street, 
and which, whatever it may be now, was in those days a desolate 
place enough , surrounded by little else than fields and ditches. 

** Having drawn the travelling-cap he had on , half over his 
face, and muffled himself in his cloak, Heyling stopped before 
the meanest-looking house in the street , and knocked gently at 
the door. It was at once opened by a woman , who dropped a 
curtesy of recognition , and Heyling whispering the officer to 
remain below, crept gently up stairs, and, opening the door of 
the front room , entered at once. 

“ The object of his search and his unrelenting animosity, now 
a decrepit old man , was seated at a bare deal table , on which 
stood a miserable candle. He started on the entrance of the 
stranger, and rose feebly to his feet. 

“ ‘ What now, what now? ’said the old man — * What fresh 
misery is this? What do you want here?’ 

“ ‘ A word with you,’ replied Heyling. As he spoke , he seat- 
ed himself at the other end of the tableland, throwing off his 
cloak and cap, disclosed his features. 

“ The old roan seemed instantly deprived of the power of 
speech. He fell backward in his chair, and, clasping his hands 
together, gazed on the apparition with a mingled look of abhor- 
rence and fear. 

“ ‘ This day six years ,’ said Heyling , ‘ I claimed the life you 
owed me for my child’s. Beside the lifeless form of your daugh- 
ter, old man , I swore to live a life of revenge. I have never 
swerved from my purpose for a moment’s space ; but if I had , 
one thought of her uncomplaining, suffering look, as she droop- 
ed away, or of the starving face of our innocent child , would 
have nerved me to my task. My first act of requital you well re- 
member : this is my last.’ 

“ The old man shivered , and his hands dropped powerless by 
his side. 

“ ‘ I leave England to-morrow,’ said Heyling, after a mo- 
ment’s pause. — ‘ To-night I consign you , to the living death to 
which you devoted her — a hopeless prison ’ 

“ He raised his eyes to the old man’s countenance , and paus- 
ed. He lifted the light to his face , set it gently down , and left 
the apartment. 

“ ‘ You had better see to the old man ,’ he said to the woman, 
as he opened the door , and motioned the officer to follow him 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. ' 261 

into the street— 4 1 think he is ill.’ The woman closed the door, 
ran hastily up stairs, and found him lifeless. He had died iu a fit 

**«■*** *■**,**, X- **-** 

“ Beneath a plain grave-stone, in one of the most peaceful 
and secluded churchyards in Kent , where wild flowers mingle 
with the grass , and the soft landscape around forms the fairest 
spot in the garden of England , lie the bones of the young mo- 
ther and her gentle child. . But the ashes of the father, do not 
mingle with theirs *, nor from that night forward, did the attorney 
ever gain the remotest clue ,. to the subsequent history of his 
queer client.” 


As the old man concluded his tale, he advanced to a peg in 
one corner, and taking down his hat and coat, put them on with 
great deliberation and , without saying another word , walked 
slowly away. As ‘the gentleman with the Mosaic studs had fallen 
asleep , and the major part of the company were deeply occu- 
pied in the humorous process of dropping melted tallow-grease 
into his brandy and water, Mr. Pickwick departed unnoticed, 
and having settled his own score, and that of Mr. Weller, he 
issued forth, in company with that gentleman, from beneath the 
portal of the Magpie and-Stump./ 


CHAPTER XXIII. 

MB. PICKWICK JOURNEYS TO IPSWICH , AND MEETS WITH A ROMANTIC ADVENTURE 
WITH A MIDDLE-AGED LADY IN YELLOW CURL PAPERS. 

“ That ’ere your governor’s luggage , Sammy? ” inquired Mr. 
Weller senior, of his affectionate son, as he entered the yard of 
the Bull inn , Whitechapel , with a travelling bag and a small 
portmanteau. 

“ You might ha’ made a worser guess than that, old feller,” 
replied Mr. Weller the younger, setting down his burden in 
the yard , and sitting himself down upon it afterwards. “ The 
governor hisself ’ll be down here presently.” 

“ He’s a cabbin’ it , I suppose ? ” said the father. 

“ Yes, he’s a havin’ two mile o’ danger at eight-pence,” re- 
sponded the son. “ How’s mother-in-law this mornin’?” 

“ Queer, Sammy, queer, ” replied the elder Mr. Weller, with 
impressive gravity. “ She’s been gettin’ rayther in the Metho- 
distical order lately, Sammy ; and she is uncommon pious , to be 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



262 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

sure. She’s too good a creetiir for me, Sammy — I feel I don’t 

deserve her.” 

“ Ah,” said Mr. Samuel, “ that’s wery self-denyin’ o* you.” 

“ Wery,” replied his parent, with a sigh. “ She’s got hold o’ 
some inwention for grown-up people being born again , Sammy 
— the new birth, I thinks they calls it. I should wery' much like 
to see that system in haction , Sammy. 1 should wery much like 
to see your motheMn-law bom again. Wouldn’t I put her out 
to nurse ! ” 

“ What do you think them women does t’other day,” con- 
tinued Mr. Weller, after a short pause , during which be had 
significantly struck the side of his nose with his fore-finger, 
some half-dozen times. “ What do you think they does, t’other 
day, Sammy?” 

“ Don’t know,” replied Sam, “ what?” 

“ Goes and gets up a grand tea drinkin’ for a feller they Calls 
their shepherd,” said Mr. Weller. “ I was a standing starin’ in 
at the pictur shop down at our place , when I sees a little bill 
about it; ‘tickets half-a-crown. All applications to be made to 
the committee. Secretary, Mrs. Weller ;’ and when I got home, 
there was the committee a sittin’ in our back parlour — fourteen 
women ; I wish you could ha’ heard ’em, Sammy. There they 
was , a passin’ resolutions , and wotin’ supplies , and all sorts o’ 
games. Well, what with your mother-in-law a worrying me to 
go , and what with my looking for’ard to seein’ some queer starts 
if I did, I put my name down for a ticket ; at six o’clock on the * 
Friday evenin’ I dresses myself out, wery smart, and ofjl goes { 
vith the old 'oomau , and up we walks into a fust floor where f 
there was tea-things for thirty, and a whole lot o’ women as 
begins whisperin’ to one another, and lookin’ at me, as if they’d 
never seen a rayther stout gen’lm’n of eight-and-fifty afore. By 
and bye , there comes a great bustle down stairs, and a lanky 
chap with a red nose and white neckcloth rushes up, and sings 
out, ‘ Here’s the shepherd a coming to wisit his faithful flock;’ 
and in comes a fat chap in black, vith a great white face, a smilin’ 
avay like clock-work. Such goin’s on, Sammy. ‘The kiss of 
peace,’ says the shepherd ; and then he kissed the women all 
round, and ven he’d done, the man vith the red nose began. I 
was just a thinkin’ whether I hadn’t better begin too — ’specially 
as there was a wery nice lady a sittin’ next me — ven in comes 
the tea , and your mother-in-law, as had been makin’ the kettle 
boil , down stairs. At it they went, tooth and nail. -Such a pre- 
cious loud hymn Sammy, while the tea was a brewing; such 
a grace, such eatin’ and drinkin’. I wish you could ha’ seen the 
shepherd walkin’ into the ham and muffins. I never see such a 
chap to eat and drink — never. The' red-nosed man wam’t by 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OP THE PICKWICK CLl/B. 263 

do means the sort of person you’d like to grub by contract , but 
he was nothin to the shepherd. Well’ ; arter the tea was over, 
they sang another hymn , and then the shepherd began to 
preach : and wery well he did it , considerin’ how heavy them 
muffins must have lied on his chest. Presently he pulls up , all 
of a sudden , and hollers out, ‘ Where is the sinner ; where is 
the mis’rable sinner ? ’ upon which, all the women looked at me, 
and began to groan as if they was dying. I thought it was rather 
sing’ler, but hows’ever, 1 says nothing. Presently he pulls up 
again, and lookin’ wery hard at me, says, ‘ Where is the sinner ; 
where is the mis’rable sinner ? ’ and all the women groans again, 
ten times louder than afore. I got rather savage at this , so I 
takes a step or two for’ard and says, ‘ My friend,’ says I, ‘ did 
you apply that e’re obserwation to me?’ — ’Stead of beggin’ my 
pardon as any gen’lm’n would ha’ done , he got more abusive 
than ever : called me a weasel, Sammy — a wessel of wrath — 
and all sorts o’ names. So my blood being reg’larly up, I first 
gave him two or three for himself, and then two or three more 
to hand over to the man with the red nose , and walked off. I 
wish you could ha’ heard how the women screamed , Sammy, 

ven they picked up the shepherd fi;om under the table. 

Hallo! here’s the governor, the size 6f life.’” 

As Mr. Weller spoke, Mr. Pickwick dismounted from a cab, 
and entered the yard. \ 

“ Fine mornin’, sir ’’—said Mr. WeHer senior. 

“ Beautiful indeed” — replied Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Beautiful indeed ,” echoed a red-haired man with an inqui- 
sitive nose and blue spectacles , who had unpacked himself from 
a cab at the same moment as Mr. Pickwick. “Going to Ipswich, 
sir?” 

“ I am ,” replied Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Extraordinary coincidence. So am I.” 

Mr. Pickwick bowed. 

“ Going outside? said the red-haired man. 

Mr. Pickwick bowed again. 

“ Bless my soul, how remarkable — I am going outside, too,” 
said the red-haired man : “we are positively goUg together.” 
And the red-haired man , who was an important-looking, sharp- 
nosed , mysterious-spoken personage , with a bird-like habit of 
giving his head a jerk every time he said anything, smiled as if 
he had made one of the strangest discoveries that ever fell to the 
lot of human wisdom. 

“ I am happy in the prospect of your company, sir,” said Mr. 
Pickwick. 

“ Ah ,” said the new comer, “ it’s a good thing for both of us, 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



264 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

isn’t it? Company, you see— company is — is — it’s a very dif- 
ferent thing from solitude — a’n’t it?” 

“ There’s no denyin’ that ’ere,” said Mr. Weller, joining in the 
conversation , with an affable smile. “ That’s what I call a self- 
evident proposition, as the dog’s-meat man said, when the 
house-maid told him he warn’t a gentleman.” 

“ Ah ,” said the red-haired man, surveying Mr. Weller from 
head to foot, with a supercilious look. “ Friend of yours, sir?” 

“ Not exactly a friend replied Mr. Pickwick , in a low tone. 
“The fact is , he is my servant, but I allow him to take a good 
many liberties; for, between ourselves., I flatter myself he is an 
original, and I am rather proud of him.” 

“ Ah ,” said the red-haired man , “ that , you see , is a matter 
of taste. I am not fond of anything original; 1 don’t like it ; 
don’t see the necessity for it. What’s your name, sir?” 

“ Here is my card ; sir,” replied Mr. Pickwick , much amused 
by the abruptness of the question , and the singular manner of 
the stranger. 

“Ah,” said the red-haired man, placing the card in his 
pocket-book, “Pickwick; very good. I like to know a man’s 
name, it saves so much trouble. That’s my card, sir. Magnus, 
you will perceive , sir — Magnus is my name. It’s rather a good 
name, I think, sir?” 

“A very good name, indeed,” said Mr. Pickwick, wholly 
unable to repress a Smile. 

“ Yes , I think itis,” resumed Mr. Magnus. “ There’s a good 
name before it ,> too , you will observe. Permit me , sir — if you 
hold the card a little slanting, this way, you. catch the light 
upon the up-stroke. There — Peter Magnus. — sounds well, I 
think, sir?” 

“ Very,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Curious circumstance k about those initials , sir,” said Mr. 
Magnus. “ You will observe — P. M.— post meridian. In hasty 
notes to intimate acquaintance, I sometimes sign myself ‘After- 
noon.’ It amusesmy friends very much , Mr. Pickwick.” 

“Itis calculated to afford them the highest gratification, I 
should conceive ,” said Mr. Pickwick , rather envying the ease 
with which Mir. Magnus’s friends were entertained. 

- “Now, gen’lm’n,” said the hostler, “coach is ready, if you 
please.” 

“ Is all my luggage in?” inquired Mr. Magnus. 

“All right, sir.” 

“ Is the red bag in ? ” 

“All right, sir.” 

“ And the striped bag ? ” 

“ Fore boot, sir.” 


Digitized by 


Google 



265 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 

“ And the brown-paper parcel?” 

“ Under the seat , sir.” 

“ And the leather hat-box ? ” 

“ They’re all in , sir,” 

“Now, will you get up?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“Excuse me,” replied Magnus , standing on the wheel. 
“ Excuse me , Mr. Pickwick. I cannot consent to get up, in this 
state of uncertainty. 1 am quite satisfied from that man’s manner, 
that that leather hat-box is not in.” 

The solemn protestations of the hostler being wholly unavail- 
ing , the leather' baft-box was obliged to be raked up from the 
lowest depth of the boot, to satisfy him that it had been safely 
packed ; and after he had been assured on this head , he felt a 
solemn presentiment, first, that the red bag was mislaid, and 
next that the striped bag had been stolen, and then that the 
brown paper parcel had “ come untied.” At length when he had 
received ocular demonstration of the groundless nature of each 
and every of these suspicions , he consented to climb up to the 
roof of the coach , observing that now he had taken everything 
off 1 his mind , he felt quite comfortable and happy. 

“ You’re given to nervousness , an’t you , sir ?” inquired Mr. 
Weller senior, eying the stranger askance, as he mounted to his 
place. 

“Yes $ I always am rather, about these little matters,” said 
the stranger; “ but 1 am all right now — quite right.” 

“Well, that’s a blessin’,” said Mr. Weller. “Sammy, help 
your master up to the box : t’other leg , sir, that’s it ; give us 
your hand, sir. Up with you. You was a lighter weight when 
you was a boy, sir.” 

“ True enough , that , Mr. Weller,” said the breathless Mr. 
Pickwick , good-humouredly , as he took his seat on the box 
beside him. 

“Jump up in front, Sammy,” said Mr. Weller. “Now, Vil- 
iam, run ’em out. Take care o’ the archvay, gen’lm’n. ‘ Heads,’ 
as the pie-man says. That’ll do , Viliam. Let ’em alone.” And 
away went the coach up Whitechapel , to the admiration of the 
whole population of that pretty densely populated quarter, 

“ Not a wery nice neighbourhood this , sir,” said Sam , with 
the touch of the hat which always preceded bis entering into 
conversation with his master. 

“It is not indeed, Sam,” replied Mr. Pickwick, surveying 
the crowded and filthy street through which they were passing. 

“ It’s a wery remarkable circumstance , sir,” said Sam , “ that 
poverty and oysters always seems to go together.” 

“ I don’t understand yoy , Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ What I mean , sir,” said Sam , (i is , that the poorer a place 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



266 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

is , the greater call there seems to be for oysters. Look here , sir; 
here’s a oyster stall to every half-dozen houses — the street’s lined 
vith ’em. Blessed if I don’t think that ven a man’s wery poor, 
be rushes out of his lodgings', and eats oysters in reg’lar de- 
speration.” HI' 

“ To be sorehe does said Mr. Weller senior, “ and it’s just 
the same vith piokledsahnoni 

“ Those>ai»twoveryrem*rkabie facts, which never occurred 
to me before,” saidMr. Piekwiok. ♦‘The very first place we 
stop at, Pllmakeanotemfittibiiu” 

By this time (they had reached the turnpike at Mile End ; a 
profound silence prevailed , until they bad got two or three 
miles further on, when Mr. Weller senior turning suddenly to 
Mr. Pickwick , said — 

“ Wery queer life is a pike-keeper’s, sir.” 

“ A what?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ A pike-keeper.” 

“ What do you mean by a pike-keeper? ” inquired Mr, Peter 
Magnus. 

“ The’old ’un means a turnpike keeper, gen’lm’n ,” observed 
Mr. Weller, in explanation. 

“Oh,” said Mr. Pickwick, “I see. Yes; very curious life. 
Very uncomfortable.” 

“They’re all on ’em, men as has met with some disappoint- 
ment in life,” said Mr. Weller senior. 

“ Ay, ay?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Yes. Consequence of vich , they retires from the world, and 
shuts themselves up in pikes; partly vith the view of being so- 
litary, and partly to rewenge themselves on mankind , by takin’ 
tolls.” 

“ Dear me ,” said Mr. Pickwick, “ I never knew that before.” 

“ Fact, sir,” said Mr. Weller; “if they was gen’lm’n, you’d 
call ’em misanthropes , but as it is they only takes to pike- 
keepin’.” 

With such conversation , possessing the inestimable charm of 
blending amusement with instruct tpn , did Mr. Weller beguile 
the tediousness of the journey, during the greater part of the 
day. Topics of conversation were never wanting , for even when 
any pause occurred in Mr. Weller’s loquacity, it was abundantly 
supplied by the desire evinced by Mr. Magnus to make himself 
acquainted with the whole of the personakhistory of his fellow- 
travellers , and his loudly-expressed anxiety at every stage , re- ■ 
specting the safety and well-being of the two bags , the leather 
hat-box , and the brown paper parcel. 

In the main street of Ipswich , on the left-hand side of the way, 
a short distance, altar you have passed through the open space 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. S67 

fronting the Town Hall , stands an inn known far and wide by 
the appellation of “The Great White Horse,” rendered the 
more conspicuous by a stone statue of some rampacious animal 
with flowing mane and tail ^ distantly resembling an insane cart- 
horse, which is elevated above the principal door. The Great 
White Horse is famous in the neighbourhood , in the same de- 
gree as a prize ox , or county paper-chronicled turnip , or un- 
wieldy pig— for its enormous size. Never were such labyrinths 
of uncarpeted passages , such clusters of mouldy, badly-lighted 
rooms, such huge numbers of small dens for eating or sleeping 
in , beneath any one roof, as are collected together between the 
four walls of the Great White Horse at Ipswich. 

It was at the door of this overgrown tavern , that the London 
coach stopped, at the same hour every evening; and it was 
from this same London coach , that Mr. Pickwick, Sam Weller, 
and Mr. Peter Magnus dismounted, on the particular evening 
to which this chapter of our history bears reference. 

“ Do you stop here ,/sir?” inquired Mr. Peter Magnus, when 
the striped bag, and the red bag, and the brown paper parcel , 
and the leather bat-box , had all been deposited in the passage. 
“ Do you slop here, sir?” 

“ I do ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“Dear me,” said Mr. Magnus, “I never knew anything like 
these extraordinary coincidences. Why, I stop here, too. I hope 
we dine together?” 

“With pleasure,” replied Mr. Pickwick. “I am not quite 
certain whether I have any friends here or not, though. Is there 
any gentleman of the name of Tupman here , waiter?” 

A corpulent man , with a fortnight’s napkin under his arm , 
and coeval stockings on his legs , slowly desisted from his occu- 
pation of staring down the street , on this question being put to 
' him by Mr. Pickwick ; and , after minutely inspecting that 
gentleman’s appearance, from the crown of his hat to the lowest 
button of his gaiters, replied emphatically — 

“No.” 

“ Nor any gentleman of the name of Snodgrass?” inquired 
Mr. Pickwick. * 

“No!” 

“Nor Winkle?” 

“ No.” 

“ My friends have not arrived to-day, sir,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

‘ ‘ We will dine alone , then. Shew us a private room , waiter.” 

On this request being preferred , the corpulent man con- 
descended to order the boots to bring in the gentlemen’s luggage, 
and preceding them down a long dark passage , ushered them 
into a large badly-furnished apartment, with a dirty grate, in 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



268 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

which a small lire was making a wretched attempt to be cheer- 
ful , but was fast sinking beneath the dispiriting influence of the 
place. Alter the lapse of an hour, a bit of flsh and a steak , were 
served up to the travellers, and when the dinner was cleared 
away, Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Peter Magnus drew their chairs up 
to the fire , and having ordered a bottle of the worst possible port 
wine, at the highest possible price, for the good of the house , 
drank brandy and water for their own. 

Mr. Peter Magnus was naturally of a very communicative dis- 
position, and the brandy and water operated with wonderful effect 
in warming into life the deepest hidden secrets of his bosom. 
After sundry accounts of himself, his family, his connexions , 
his friends, bis jokes, his business, and bis brothers (most 
talkative men have a great deal to say about their brothers), 
Mr. Peter Magnus took a blue view of Mr. Pickwick through 
his coloured spectacles for several minutes , and then said , with 
an air of modesty — 

“ And what do you think — what do you think , Mr. Pickwick 

— I have come down here for ? ” . i 

“ Upon my word ,” said Mr. Pickwick , “ it is wholly impos- 
sible for me to guess ; on business, perhaps?” 

“ Partly right, sir,”. replied jMrj peter Magnus, “ but. partly 
wrong , at top, same time, : try again * Air. Pickwick.” , t , 

. “ R^aljy',’ v .‘said Mr. Pickwick , “ ! must throw myself on your 
mercy, to tell me .or not, a$ you may think best 5 for I should 
never guess , if I were to try all night.” 

“ Why , flien.) , pe — he — he ! ” said Mr. Peter Magnus, 
with a bashful titter, “ what should you think, Mr. Pickwick , 
if I had come down here , to make a proposal , sir, eh ? He — he 

— he!” 

“Think! that you are very likely to succeed,” replied Mr. 
Pickwick, with one of his most beaming smiles. 

“Ah!” ( said Mr. Magnus, “but do you really think so, 
Mr. Pickwick? Do you, though?” 

“ Certainly,” said Mr., Pickwick. 

“ No-, but you’re joking,, thpugh.” 

“ I am not , indeed.” 

“Why, then,” said Mf ^Magnus, “to let you into a little 
secret , /.think so top. 1 <jon’t mind telling you , Mr. Pickwick , 
although Pm dreadful jealous by nature — horrid — that the 
lady is in this house.” Here Mr. Magnus took off his spectacles , 
on purpose to wink , and then put them on again. 

“ That’s what you were running out of the room for, before 
dinner, then , so often ,” said Mr. Pickwick , archly. 

“ Hush — yes , you’re right , that was it not such a fool as to 
see her, though.” 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



269 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. * 

“No!” 4 

“ No j wouldn’t do , you know, after having just come off a 
journey. Wait till to-morrow, sir •, double the chance then. 
Mr. Pickwick, sir, there is a suit of clothes in that bag, and a 
hat in that box , which I expect , In the effect they will produce, 
will be invaluable to me , sir.” ' 

“ Indeed ! ” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Yes ; you must have observed bay anxiety about them to- 
day. I do not believe that such another 'suit <bf clothes , and suclj 
a hat , could be bought for money,' Mr; Pickwick.” 

Mr. Pickwick congratulated the fortunate owner of the irre- 
sistible garments, on their acquisition ; and Mr. Peter Magnus re- 
mained for a fteWmoments apparently absorbed in Contemplation. 

“ She’s a fine creature ,” said Mr. Magnus. 

“ Is she?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Very,” said Mr. Magnus, “ very. She lives about twenty 
miles from here , Mr. Pickwick. I heard she would be here to- 
night and all to-morrow forenoon , and came down to seize the 
opportunity. I think an inn is a good sort of place to propose to 
a single woman in , Mr. Pickwick.' She is more likely to feel the 
loneliness of her situation in travelling , perhaps, than she would 
be at home. What do you think , Mr. Pickwick ? ” 

* “ I think it very probable,” replied that gentleman. 

“ I beg your pardon, Mr. Pickwick,” said Mr. Peter Magnus, 
“but I am naturally rather curious : what may you have come 
down here for?” 

“ On a far less pleasant errand, sir,” replied Mr. Pickwick, the 
colour mounting to his face at the recollection — “1 have come 
down here , sir, to expose the treachery and falsehood of an in- 
dividual, upon whose truth and honour I placed implicit reliance.” 

“ Dear me,” said Mr. Peter Magnus, “ that’s very unpleasant. 
It is a lady, I presume? Eh? ah! Sly, Mr. Pickwick, sly. Well, 
Mr. Pickwick, sir, I wouldn’t probe your feelings for the world. 
Painfol subjects , these , sir, very painful. Don’t mind me, Mr. 
Pickwick, if you wish to give vent to your feelings. I know what 
it is to be jilted, sir*, I have endured that sort of thing three or 
four times.” 

“Iam much obliged to you, for your condolence on what you 
presume to be my melancholy case,” said Mr. Pickwick, winding 
up his watch, and laying it on the table, “but — ” 

“ No, no,” said Mr. Peter Magnus , lt not a word more : it’s a 
painful subject, I see, I see. What’s thfe time, Mr. Pickwick?” 

“Past twelve.” 

“ Dear me, it’s time to go to bed: It will never do, sitting here. 
I shall be pale to-morrow, Mr. Pickwick.” 

At the bare notion of such a calamity, Mr. Peter Magnus rang 


Digitized by v^ooQle 



J70 * POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

the bell for the chamber-maid; and the striped bag, the red bag, 
the leather hat-box , and the brown paper parcel, having been 
conveyed to his bed-room, he retired in company with a japan- 
ned candlestick, to one side of the house , while Mr. Pickwick , 
and another japanned candlestick, were conducted, through a 
multitude of tortuous windings, to another. 

“ This is your room, sir,” said the chamber-maid. 

“Very well,” replied Mr. Pickwick, looking round him. It 
was a tolerably large double-bedded room, with a fire ; upon the 
whole , a more comfortable-looking apartment than Mr. Pick- 
wick’s short experience of the accommodations of the Great 
White Horse had led him to expect. 

“ Nobody sleeps in the other bed, of course,” said Mr. Pick- 
wick. 

“ Oh no, sir.” 

“ Very good. Tell my servant to bring roe up some hot water 
at half-past eight in the morning , and that I shall not want him 
any more to-night.” 

“ Yes, sir.” And bidding Mr. Pickwick good night the cham- 
bermaid retired, and left him* alone. 

Mr. Pickwick sat himself down in a chair before the fire , and 
fell into a train of rambling meditations. First he thought of his 
friends, and wondered when they would join him ; then his mirid 
reverted to Mrs. Martha Bardell ; and from that lady it wandered, 
by a natural process, to the dingy counting-house of Dodson and 
Fogg. From Dodson and Fogg’s it flew off at a tangent, to the 
very centre of the history of the queer client; and then it came 
back to the Great White Horse at Ipswich, with sufficient clear- 
ness to convince Mr. Pickwick that he was falling asleep : so he 
roused himself, and began to undress, when he recollected he 
had left his watch on the table down stairs. 

Now this watch was a special favourite with Mr. Pickwick , 
having been carried about, beneath the shadow of his waistcoat , 
for a greater number of years than we feel called upon to state, 
at present. The possibility of going to sleep, unless it were tick- 
ing gently beneath his pillow, or in the watch-pocket over his 
head, had never entered Mr. Pickwick’s brain. So as it was pretty 
late now, and be was unwilling to ring his bell at that hour of the 
night, he slipped on his coat, of which he had just divested him- 
self , and taking the japanned candlestick in his hand , walked 
quietly down stairs. 

The more stairs Mr. Pickwick went down , the more stairs 
there seemed to be to descend , and again and again , when Mr. 
Pickwick got into some narroVr passage, and began to congratu- 
late himself on having gained the ground-floor, did another flight 
of stairs appear before his astonished eyes. At last he reached a 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 271 

stone ball, which he remembered to have seen when he entered 
the house. Passage after passage did he explore; room after room 
did he peep into ; at length, just as he was on the point of giving 
up the search in despair, he opened the door of the identical room 
in which he had spent the evening , and beheld his missing pro- 
perty on the table. 

Mr. Pickwick seized the watch in triumph , and proceeded to 
re-trace his steps to his bed-chamber. If his progress down- 
wards had been attended with difficulties and uncertainty, his 
journey, back was infinitely more, perplexing. Rows of doors, 
garnished with boots of every shape, make, and size, branched 
off in every possible direction. A dozen times did he softly turn 
the handle of some bed-room door, which resembled his own, 
when a gruff cry from within of “ Who the devil’s that?” or 
“ What do you want here? ” caused him to steal away, on tip- 
toe, with a perfectly marvellous celerity. He was reduced to the 
verge of despair, when an open door attracted his attention. He 
peeped in — right at last. There were the two beds, whose situa- 
tion he perfectly remembered, and the fire still burning. His 
candle, not a long one when he first received it, had flickered 
away in the drafts of air through which he had passed, and sunk 
into the socket, just as he. closed the door after him. “ No mat- 
ter,” said Mr. Pickwick,. “ I can undress myself just as well , by 
the light of the fire.”--. 

The bedsteads stood , one on each side of the door ; and on the 
inner side of each , was a little path, terminating in a rush-bot- 
tomed chair, just wide enough to admit of a person’s getting 
into or out of bed, on that side, if he or she thought proper. Hav- 
ing carefully drawn the curtains of his bed on the outside , Mr. 
Pickwick sat down on the rush-bottomed chair, and leisurely 
divested himself of his shoes and gaiters. He then took off and 
folded up his coat , waistcoat , and neck-cloth, and slowly draw- 
ing on his tasseled night-cap , secured it firmly on his head , by 
tying beneath his chin the strings which he always had attached 
to that article of dress. It was at this moment that the absurdity 
of his recent bewilderment struck upon his mind ; and throwing 
himself back in the rush-bpttomed chair, Mr. Pickwick laughed 
to himself so heartily, that it would have been quite delightfbl to 
any man of well-constituted mind to have watched the smiles 
which expanded his amiable features as they shone forth, from 
beneath the night-cap. 

“ It is the-best idea ,” said Mr. Pickwick to himself, smiling 
till he almost cracked the night-cap strings — “ It is the best 
idea, my losing myself in this place , and wandering about those 
staircases , that I ever heard of. Droll , droll , very droll.” Here 
Mr. Pickwick smiled again /a broader smile than before, and 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



272 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

was about to continue the process of undressing, in the best 
possible humour y when he was suddenly stopped by a most 
unexpected interruption ; to wit, the entrance into the room of 
some person with a candle, who, after locking the door, ad- 
vanced to the dressing table, and set down the light upon it. 

The smile that played on Mr. Pickwick’s features , was instan- 
taneously lost in a look of the most unbounded and wonder- 
stricken surprise. The person , whoever it was , had come in 
so suddenly and with so little noise, that Mr. Pickwick bad had 
no time to call out, or oppose the entrance. Who could it be? 
A robber? Some evil-minded person who had seen him come up 
stairs with a handsome watch in his hand , perhaps ? What was he 
to do? 

The only way in which Mr. Pickwick could catch a glimpse 
of his mysterious visiter with the least danger of being seen him- 
self, was by creeping on to the bed , and peeping out from be- 
tween the curtains on the opposite side. To this manoeuvre he 
accordingly resorted. Keeping the curtains carefully closed with 
his hand, so that nothing more of him could be seen than his 
face and night-cap , and putting on his spectacles , he mustered 
up courage, and looked out. 

Mr. Pickwick almost fainted with horror and dismay. Stand- 
ing before the dressing glass , was a middle-aged lady in yellow 
curl-papers, busily engaged in brushing what ladies call their 
“ back hair.” However the unconscious middle-aged lady came 
into that room , it was quite clear that she contemplated remain- 
ing there for the night ; for she had brought a rushlight and shade 
with her, which, with praiseworthy precaution against fire, 
she had stationed in a basin on the floor, where it was glimmering 
away, like a gigantic lighthouse, in a particularly small piece of 
water. 

“ Bless my soul,” thought Mr. Pickwick, “ what a dreadful 
thing!” 

“ Hem ! ” said the lady ; and in went Mr. Pickwick’s head 
with automaton-like rapidity. 

“ I never met with anything so awful as this ,” — thought poor 
Mr. Pickwick , the cold perspiration starting in drops upon his 
night-cap. “ Never. This is fearful.” 

It was quite impossible to resist the urgent desire to see what 
was going forward. So out went Mr. Pickwick’s head again. 
The prospect was worse than before. The middle-aged lady had 
finished arranging her hair; had carefully enveloped it, in a 
muslin night-cap with a small plaited border , and was getting 
pensively on the fire. 

“ This matter is growing alarming ” — reasoned Mr. Pickwick 
with himself. “ I can’t allow things to go on in this way. By the 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 273 

self-possession of that lady, it’s clear to me that I must have 
come into the wrong room. If I call out, she’ll alarm the house , 
but if I remain here, the consequences will be still more fright- 
ful.” 

Mr. Pickwick, it is quite unnecessary to say, was one of the 
most modest and delicate-minded of mortals. The very idea of 
exhibiting his nightrcap to a lady overpowered him , but he had 
tied those confounded strings in a knot, and do what he would , 
he couldn’t get it off. The disclosure must be made. There was 
only one other way of doing it. He shrunk behind the curtains, 
and called out very loudly — 

“Ha — hum.” 

That the lady started at this unexpected sound was evident , 
by her falling up against the rush-light shade •, that she persuaded 
herself it must have been the effect of imagination was equally 
clear, for when Mr. Pickwick, under the impression that she 
had fainted away, stone-dead from fright , ventured to peep out 
again , she was gazing pensively on the fire as before. 

“ Most extraordinary female this ,” thought Mr. Pickwick , 
popping in again. “Ha — hum.” 

These last sounds, so like those in which, as legends inform us, 
the ferocious giant Blunderbore was in the habit of expressing 
his opinion that it was time today the cloth , were too distinctly 
audible, to be again mistaken for the workings of fancy. 

“Gracious Heaven!” said the middle-aged lady, “what’s 
that?” 

. “It’s — it’s — only a gentleman , ma’am ,” said Mr. Pickwick 
from behind the curtains. 

“ A gentleman ! ” said the lady with a terrific screamr 
: “ It’s all over,” thought Mr. Pickwick. 

“A strange man ! ” shrieked the lady. Another instant, and 
the house would be alarmed. Her garments rustled as she rushed 
towards the door. 

“ Ma’am ” — said Mr. Pickwiek, thrusting out his head, in the 
extremity of his desperation. “ Ma’am.” 

Now although Mr. Pickwick was not actuated by any definite 
object in putting out his head , it was instantaneously productive 
of a good effect. The lady, as we have already stated, was near 
the door. She must pass it, to reach the staircase ; and she would 
most undoubtedly have done so, by this time, had not the sudden 
apparition of Mr. Pickwick’s night-cap driven her back, into the 
remotest corner of the apartment, where she stood, staring 
wildly at Mr. Pickwick, while Mr. Pickwick in his turn stared 
wildly at her. 

“ Wretch said the lady , covering her eyes with her hands, 
“ what do you want here? ” 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



274 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“Nothing, ma’am— nothing whatever, ma’am,” said Mr. 
Pickwick earnestly. 

“ Nothing ! ” said the lady, looking up. 

“Nothing, ma’am, upon my honour,” said Mr. Pickwick, 
nodding bis head so energetically, that the tassel of his night- 
cap danced again. “Iam almost ready to sink, ma’am, beneath 
the confusion of addressing a lady in my night-cap (here the 
lady hastily spatched off her’s), but I can’t get it off, ma’am 
(here Mr. Pickwick gave it a tremendous tug, in proof of the 
statement). It is evident to me , ma’am , now, that I have mis- 
taken this bed-room for my own. I bad not been here five 
minutes, ma’am, when you suddenly entered it.” 

“ If this improbable story be really true, sir” -r- said the lady, 
sobbing violently, “ you will leave it instantly.” 

“ I will, ma’am , with the greatest pleasure ” — replied Mr. 
Pickwick. 

“ Instantly, sir,” said the lady, 

“ Certainly, ma’am ,” interposed Mr. Pickwick very quickly. 
“ Certainly, ma’am. I — I — am very sorry, ma’am, said Mr. 
Pickwick, making his appearance at the bottom of the bed , “ to 
have been the innocent occasion of this alarm and emotion ; 
deeply sorry, ma’am.” 

The lady pointed to the door. One excellent quality of Mr. 
Pickwick’s character was beautifully displayed at this moment, 
under the most trying circumstances. Although he had hastily 
put on his hat over his night-cap , after the manner of the old 
4 patrol although he carried his shoes and gaiters in his hand , 
and his coat and waistcoat over bis arm, nothing could subdue 
bis native politeness. 

“ I am exceedingly sorry, ma’am,” said Mi*. Pickwick, bowing 
very low. 

“ If you are, sir, you will at once leave the room,” said 
the lady. 

“ Immediately, ma’am ; this instant , ma’am ,” said Mr. Pick- 
wick opening the door, and dropping both his shoes with a loud 
crash in so doing. 

“ I trust , ma’am,” resumed Mr. Pickwick, gathering up his 
shoes , and turning round to bow again. “I trust , ma’am , that 
my unblemished character, and the devoted respect I entertain 
{for your sex, will plead as some slight excuse for this. ” — But 
before Mr. Pickwick could conclude the sentence , the lady had 
thrust him into the passage , and locked and bolted the door 
behind him. 

Whatever grounds of self-congratulation Mr. Pickwick might 
have , for having escaped so quietly from his late awkward situa- 
tion , his present position was by no means enviable. He was 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 275 

alone , in an open passage , in a strange house , in the middle of 
the night, half dressed ; it was not to be supposed that he could 
find his way in perfect darkness to a room which he had been 
wholly unable to discover with a light, and if he made the 
slightest noise in his fruitless attempts to do so , he stood every 
chance of being shot at, and perhaps killed , by some wakeful 
traveller. He had no resource but to remain where he was, until 
daylight appeared. So after groping his way a few paces down 
the passage , and to his infinite alarm , stumbling over several 
pairs of boots in so doing , Mr. Pickwick crouched into a little 
recess in the wall , to wait for morning , as philosophically as he 
might. 

He was not destined, however, to undergo this additional 
trial of patience : for he had not been long ensconced in his 
present concealment , when , to his unspeakable horror, a man , 
bearing a light, appeared at the end of the passage. His horror 
was suddenly converted into joy, however, when he recognised 
the form of his faithful attendant. It was indeed Mr. Samuel 
Weller, who after sitting up thus late , in conversation with the 
Boots , who was sitting up for the mail , was now about to retire 
to rest. 

“ Sam said Mr. Pickwick, suddenly appearing before him, 
“ where’s my bed-room? ” 

Mr. Weller stared at his master with the most emphatic sur- 
prise ; and it was not until the question had been repeated three 
several times , that he turned round , and led the way to the 
long-sought apartment. 

“ Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick as#e gdHinto bed. “ I have made 
one of the most extraordinary mistakes to-night , that ever were 
heard of.” 

“ Wery likely, sir,” replied Mr. Weller drily. 

“ But of this I am determined , Sam,” said Mr. Pickwick, 
“ that if I were to stop in this house for six months , I would 
never trust myself about it, alone , again.” 

“ That’s the wery prudentest resolution as you could come to, 
sir,” replied Mr. Weller. “ You rayther want somebody to look 
arter you , sir, ven your judgment goes out a wisitin’.” 

“ What do you mean by that , Sam? ” said Mr. Pickwick. He 
raised himself in bed , aBd extended his hand , as if he were 
about to say something more; but suddenly checking himself, 
turned round , and bade his valet “ Good night.” 

“ Good night, sir,” replied Mr. Weller. He paused when he 
got outside the door — shook his head — walked on — stopped 
— snuffed the candle — shook his head again — and finally pro- 
ceeded slowly to his chamber, apparently buried in the pro- 
foundest meditation. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



276 


Posthumous papers 


CHAPTER XXIV. 

IN WHICH Ml. SAMUEL WELLS! BEGINS TO DEVOTE HIS ENERGIES TO THE RETURN 
MATCH BETWEEN HIMSELF AND MR. TROTTER. 


In a small room in the vicinity of the stable-yard , betimes in 
the morning , which was ushered in by Mr. Pickwick’s adventure 
with the middle-aged lady in the yellow curl-papers , sat Mr. 
Weller senior, preparing himself for his journey to London. He 
was sitting in an excellent attitude for having his portrait taken; 
and here it is. 

It is very possible that at some earlier period of his career, 
Mr. Weller’s profde might have presented a bold and determined 
outline. His face , however, had expanded under the influence 
of good living , and a disposition remarkable for resignation 
and its bold fleshy curves had so far extended beyond the limits 
originally assigned them , that unless you took a full view of his 
countenance in front , it was difficult to distinguish more than 
the extreme tip of a very rubicund nose. His chin , from the 
same cause, had acquired the grave and imposing form which is 
generally described by prefixing the word “ double'" to that 
expressive feature , and his complexion exhibited that peculiarly 
mottled combination of colours, which is only to be seen in 
gentlemen of his profession , and underdone roast beef. Round 
his neck he wore a crimM* ti#telling shawl , which merged into 
his chin by such imperceptible gradations , that it was difficult 
to distinguish the folds of the one , from the folds of the other. 
Over this, he mounted a long waistcoat of a broad pink-striped 
pattern , and over that again , a wide-skirted green coat , orna- 
mented with large brass buttons , whereof the two which gar- 
nished the waist, were so far apart, that no man had ever beheld 
them both, at the same time. His hair, which was short, sleek, 
and black, was just visible beneath the capacious brim of a low- 
crowned brown hat. His legs were encased in knee-cord bree- 
ches, and painted top-boots ; and a copper watch-chain termi- 
nating in one seal , and a key of the same material , dangled 
loosely from his capacious waist-band. 

We have said that Mr. Weller was engaged in preparing for 
his journey to London — he was taking sustenance , in fact. On 
the table before him , stood a pot of ale, a cold round of beef, 
and a very respectable-looking loaf, to each of which he distri- 
buted his favours in turn, with the most rigid impartiality. He 
had just cut a mighty slice from the latter, when the footsteps 


Digitized by 


Google 


*'4 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 277 

of somebody entering the room caused him to raise his head ; 
and he beheld his son. 

“ Mornin’^Sammy,” said the father. 

foe son walked up to the pot of ale, and nodding significantly 
to his parent , took a long draught by way of reply.. 

“ Wery good power o’ suction , Sammy,” said Mr. Weller 
the elder, looking into the pot , when his first-born had set it 
down half empty. “ You’d ha’ made an uncommon fine oyster, 
Sammy, if you’d been born in that station o’ life.” 

“ Yes, I des-say I should ha’ managed to pick up a respectable 
livin’,” replied Sam, applying himself to the cold beef, with con- 
siderable vigour. 

“ I’m wery sorry, Sammy,” said the elder Mr. Weller, shaking 
up the ale, by describing small circles with the pot, preparatory 
to drinking. “ I’m wery sorry, Sammy, to hear from your lips, 
as you let yourself be gammoned by that ’ere mulberry man. I 
always thought, up to three days ago , that the names of Yeller 
and gammon could never come into contract, Sammy — never.” 

“ Always exceptin’ the case of a widder, of course,” said 
Sam. 

“ Widders, Sammy,” replied Mr. Weller, slightly changing 
colour. 

“ Widders are ’ceplions to ev’ry rule. I have, heerd how many 
Ord’nary women, one widder’s equal to, in pint o’ cornin’ over 
you. I think it’s five-and-twenty, but I don’t rightly know vether 
it an’t more.” 

“ Well \ that’s pretty well,” said Sam. 

“ Besides,” continued Mr. Weller, not noticing the interrup- 
tion, “ that’s a wery different thing. You know what the coun- 
sel said, Sammy, as defended the gen’lem’n as beat his- wife with 
the poker, venever he got jolly. ‘ And arter all , my lord,’ says, 
he, ‘ it’s a amiable weakness.’ So I says respectin’ widders, 
Sammy, and so you’ll say, ven you gets as old as I am.” 

“I ought to ha’ know’d better, I know,” said Sam. 

“ Ought to ha’ know’d better I” repeated Mr. Weller, strik- 
ing the table with his fist. “ Ought to ha’ know’d better! why, 
I know a young ’un as hasn’t had half nor quarter your eddica- 
tion — as hasn’t slept about the markets, no, not six months— 
who’d ha’ scorned to be let in , in such a vay ; scorned it, Sam- 
my.” In the excitement of feeling produced by this agonising 
reflection , Mr. Weller rang the bell , and ordered an additional 
pint of ale. 

“Well, it’s no use talking about it now,” said Sam. “It’s 
over, and can’t be helped , and tha£s one consolation , as they 
alvays says in Turkey, ven they cuts the wrong man’s head off. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



278 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

It’s my innings now, gov’mbr, and as soon as I catches bold o’ 
this here Trotter, I’ll bare a good ’un.” 

“ I hope you Will , Sammy. I hop© yon will,” returned Mr. 
Weller. “ Here’s your health , Sammy, and may you speedily 
vipe off the disgrace as you’ve inflicted on the family name.” 
In honour of this toast, Mr. Weller imbibed at a draught at least 
two-thirds of the newly-arrived pint, and handed it over to his 
son, to dispose of the remainder, which he instantaneously did, 

“ And now, Sammy,” said Mr. Weller, consulting the large 
double-cased silver watch that hung at the end of the copper 
chain. “ Now it’s time I was up at the office to get my vay-bill, 
and see the coach loaded ; for coaches , Sammy, is like guns — 
they requires to be loaded with wery great care afore they go 
off.” 

At this parental and professional joke , Mr. Weller junior 
smiled a filial smile. His revered parent continued in a solemn 
tone — 

“ I’m a goin’ to leave you, Samivel my boy, and there’s no 
telling ven I shall see you again. Your mother-in-law may ha’ 
been too much for me, or a thousand things may have happened 
by the time you next bears any news o’ the celebrated Mr. Veller 
o’ the Bell Savage. The family name depends wery much upon 
you, Samivel, and I hope you’ll do wot’s right by it. Upon all 
little pints o’ breedin’, I know I may trust you as well as if it 
was my own self. So I’ve only this here one little bit of adwice 
to give you. If ever you gets to up’ards o’ fifty, and feels dis- 
posed to go a marryin’ anybody — no matter who — jist you 
shut yourself up in your own room, if you’ve got one , and pison 
yourself off hand. Hangin’s wulgar, so don’t you have nothin’ 
to say to that. Pison yourself, Samivel my boy, pison yourself, 
and you’ll be glad on it arterwards.” With these affecting 
words , Mr. Weller looked steadfastly on his son, and turning 
slowly upon his heel , disappeared from his sight. 

In the contemplative mood which these words had awakened, 
Mr. Samuel Weller walked forth from the Great White Horse 
when his father had left him; and bending his steps towards 
Saint Clement’s Church , endeavoured to dissipate his melan- 
choly, by strolling among its ancient precincts. He had loitered 
about , for some time , when he found himself in a retired spot 
— a kind of court-yard of venerable appearance — which he 
discovered had not other outlet than the turning by which he 
had entered. He was about retracing his steps , when he was 
suddenly transfixed to the spot by a sudden appearance ; and 
the mode and .manner of this appearance , we now proceed to 
relate. 

Mr. Samuel Weller had been staring up , at the old rod-brick; 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THB PICKWICK CLUB. 279 

houses, now and then, in his deep abstraction, bestowing a wink 
upon some healthy-looking servant girl as she drew up a blind, 
or threw open a bed-room window, when the greed gate of 
a garden at the bottom of the yard opened , and a man having 
emerged therefrom ,• closed the green gate very carefully after 
him, and walked briskly towards the very spot where Mr. Weller 
was standing. 

Now taking this as an isolated fact, unaccompanied hy any 
attendant circumstances, there was nothing very extraordinary in 
it, because in many parts of the world, meh do come out of gar- 
dens, close green gates after them, and even walk briskly away, 
without attracting any particular share of public observation. It 
is clear, therefore, that there must have been something in the 
man, or in his manner, or both, to attract Mr. Weller’s particular 
notice. Whether there was, or not, we must leave the reader to 
determine, wiled we have faithfully recounted the behaviour of 
the individual in question. 

When the man had shut the green gate after him , he walked, 
as we have said twice already, with a brisk pace up the court- 
yard 5 but he no sooner caught sight of Mr. Weller, than he fal- 
tered, and stopped , as if uncertain for the moment what course 
to adopt. As the green gate was closed behind him , and there 
was no other outlet but the one in front , however, he was not 
long hi perceiving that he must pass Mr. Samuel Weller to get 
away. He therefore resumed his brisk pace, and advanced , star- 
ing straight before him. The most extraordinary thing about the 
man Was, that he was contorting his face into the most fearful 
and astonishing grimaces that ever were beheld. Nature’s handy- 
work never was disguised with such extraordinary artificial 
carving , as the man had overlaid his countenance with , in one 
moment. 

“ Well,’’— said Mr. Weller to himself, as the man approached. 
“ This is wery odd. I could ha’ swore it was him.” 

Up came the man, and his face became more frightfully dis- 
torted than ever, as he drew nearer. 

“ I could take my oath to that ’ere black hair, and mulberry 
suit,” said Mr. Weller 5 “ only I never see such a face as that, 
afore.” 

As Mr. Weller said this , the man’s features assumed an un- 
earthly twinge , perfectly hideous. He was obliged to pass very 
near Sam, however, and the scrutinising glance orthat gentleman 
enabled him to detect, under all these appalling twists of feaiture, 
something too like the small eyes of Mr. Job Trotter, to be easily 
mistaken. 

“ Hallo, you, sir,” shouted Sam, fiercely. 

“the stranger stopped. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



380 POSTHUMOUS 9Ai»mS 

:t‘ HeUo , ’^repeated) Sami j still/more/gruffly. <> 

The man with the horrible face looked, with the greatest sur- 
prise, up the/ooilrtpaatk-iiwivn the>«ouirtj a»<iiin at thewindows 
everywhere bwk/;at .Sam> Weller and took an- 
other step forward/, wtteivbeiWasibiieugttt to agahr p by another 
Sh^pt-n-td) fine . ?.bmma try msousquioo <•>•! !>'•'*• " 

“ HaSowyau^flirJ W saul £»», *»; the thtal time. >- 
,, THfre was- no. pretending, to mistake Where the voice came 
from now, i so the i stranger, having no other resource , at last 
looked Sam Wieller foil in the. foceyt. ■ ■' ■ 

“ It. won’t d«,Joh! Trotter,” said -Sam. “ Come , none o’ that 
’ere nonsense. You ain’t so wery ’ansome that you can afford to 
throw avay many o’, your good looks. Bring them ’ere eyes o’ 
your’n back into their proper places , or I’ll knock ’em out of 
your head. Dy’e hear? ” 

As Mr. Weller appeared fully disposed to act up to the spirit 
of this address, Mr. Trotter gradually allowed his face to resume 
its natural expression ; and then giving a start of joy, exclaimed, 
“What do I see? Mr. Walker! ” 

“ Ah,” replied Sam — ‘ ‘ You’re wery glad to see me, ain’t you?” 

“ Glad ! ” exclaimed Job Trotter — “ Oh , Mr. Walker, if you 
had but known how I have looked forward to this meeting ! It 
is too much, Mr. Walker; I cannot bear it, indeed I cannot.” 
And with these words, Mr. Trotter burst into a regular inunda- 
tion of tears, and, flinging his arms round those of Mr. Weller, 
embraced him closely, in an ecstacy of joy. 

“ Get off,” cried Sam , highly indignant at this process, and 
vainly endeavouring to extricate himself from the grasp of his 
enthusiastic acquaintance — “ Get off, I tell you. What are you 
crying over me for, you portable ingine ? ” 

“ Because I am so glad to see you,” replied Job Trotter, gra- 
dually releasing Mr. Weller, as the first symptoms of his pugna- 
city disappeared. “ Oh, Mr. Walker, this is too much.” 

“ Too much ! ” echoed Sam, “ I think it is too much— ray ther. 
Now what have you got to say to me, eh? ” 

Mr. Trotter made no reply ; for the little pink pocket hand- 
kerchief was in full force. 

“ What have you got to say to me, afore I knock your head 
off?” repeated Mr. Weller, in a threatening manner. 

“ Eh ! ” said Mr. Trotter, with a look of virtuous surprise. 

“ What hav^vou got to say to me? ” 

“I, Mr. Walker!” 

“ Don’t call me Valkcr ; my name’s Veller ; you know that 
veil enough. What have you got to say to me ?” 

“Bless you, Mr. Walker — Weller I mean — a great many 
things, if you will come awn somewhere, where we can talk 


Digitized by v^.ooQle . 



OF THB PICKWICK CLUB. 281 

comfortably. If you knew -how l have looked for you , Mr. 

Weller-rr” •'»•!> :ji:! *U >t, i., 

“>Wery hard, 'indeed^ Is?poBe?”'«aidiSam^ drily. < 

“Very,,. very, sir/’ replied Mr. Trotter,’ without moving a 
muscle of his face. “ But shake hands, Mr. Weller.” < 

Sam eyed his companion for a few seconds, and then,* as if 
actuated by a sudden impulse, complied with his request. 

‘•‘How,” said Job Trotter, as tbey walked away How is 
your dear, good master? Qh, he is a worthy gentleman , Mr. 
Weller. I hope he didn’t catch cold, that dreadful night, sir ? ” 

There was a momentary look of deep sliness in Job Trotter’s 
eye, as he said this, which ran a thrill through Mr. Weller’s 
clenched list as he burnt with a desire to make a demonstration 
on his ribs. Sam constrained himself, however, and replied that 
his master was extremely well. 

“Oh, lam so glad!” replied Mr. Trotter. “Is he here?” 

“ Is your’n ?” asked Sam, by way of reply. 

“ Oh, yes, he is here, and I grieve to say, Mr. Weller, he is 
going on worse than ever.” 

“ Ah, ah ? ” said Sam. 

“Oh, shocking — terrible.” 

“ At a boarding-school ? ” said Sam. 

“ No, not at a boarding-school ,” replied Job Trotter, with the 
same sly look which Sam had noticed before — “ Not at 9 board- 
ing-school.” 

“At the house with the green gate?” inquired Sam, eyeing 
his companion closely. 

“ No, no — oh, not there,” replied Job, with a quickness very 
unusual to him, “ not there.” 

“What was you a doin’ there?” asked Sam, with a sharp 
glance — “ Got inside the gate by accident, perhaps? ” 

“ Why, Mr. Weller,” replied Job, “I don’t mind telling you 
my little secrets , because you know we took such a fancy for 
each other when we first met. You recollect how pleasant we 
were that morning ? ” 

“ Oh yes,” said Sam, impatiently — “ I remember. Well.” 

“ Well,” replied Job, speaking with great precision, and in the 
low tone of a man who communicates an important secret — “ In 
that house with the green gate , Mr. Weller, they keep a good 
many servants.” * . 

“ So I should think, from the look on it,” inteAosed Sam. 

“ Yes ,” continued Mr. Trotter ; “ and one of Am is a cook, 
who has saved up a little money, Mr. Weller, ai^s desirous, 
if she can establish herself in life , to open a little shop in the 
chandlery way, you see.” r ■> 

“Yes.” ' 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



282 POST HOMOHSPA FEUS 

“i'Yes^Mf.'Weller. Wwttjisir, I-met'her dt a chapel that I go 
to — a very neat little chapel in this town , Mr. Weller, where 
they sing the number fdur collection of hymns, which I gene- 
rally carry about with me, in a little book, which you may per- 
haps have seen in my hand — and I got a little intimate with 
her, Mr. Welter, and from that, an acquaintance sprung up be- 
tween us i and I may venture to siy, Mr. Weller, that I am to be 
the chandler.” 

“Ah, and a wery amiable chandler you’ll make ,” replied 
Sam, eyeing Job with a side look of intense dislike. 

“ The great advantage of this , Mr. Weller,” continued Job , 
his eyes filling with tears as he spoke , “Will be , that I shall be 
able to leave my present disgraceful service with that bad man, 
and to devote myself to a better and more Virtuous life — more 
like the way in which I was brought up, Mr. Weller.” 

“ You must ha’ been wery nicely brought up,” said Sam. 

“ Oh, very, Mr. Weller, very,” replied Job ; and at the recol- 
lection of the purity of his youthful days, Mr. Trotter pulled 
forth the pink handkerchief, and wept copiously. 

“ You must ha’ been an uncommon lucehoy, to go to School 
with,” said Sam. 

“I was, sir,” replied Job, heaving a deep sigh. “I was the 
idol of the place.” 

“ Ah,” said Sam, “ I don’t wonder at it. What a comfort you 
must ha’ been to your blessed mother ! ” 

At these words , Mr. Job Trotter inserted an end of the pink 
handkerchief into the corner of each eye, one after the other, and 
began to weep copiously. 

' “ VfiaFs the" malter~vith the man?” said Sam indignantly. 
“Chelsea waterworks is notin’ to you. What are you melting 
vith now — the consciousness o’ willainy?” 

“I cannot keep my feelings down, Mr. Weller,” said Job, 
after a short pause. “ To think that my master should have sus- 
pected the conversation I had with yours , and so dragged me 
away in a post-chaise , and after persuading the sweet young lady 
to say she knew nothing of him , and bribing the school-mistress 
to do the same, deserted her for a better speculation , — ! oh ! Mr, 
Weller, it makes me shudder.” 

“Oh, that was the vay, was it?” said Mr. Weller. 

“ To be sure it was ,” replied Job. 

“ Veil ,” said Sam , as they had now arrived near the rfolel 5 
“ I vant to have a little bit 0’ talk with you, Job; so if you’re not 
partickler engaged, I should like to see you at the Great White 
Horse to-night, somewheres about eight o’clock.” 

‘ ‘ I shall be sure to come ,” said Job. 

“ Yes, you’d better,” replied Sam , with a very meaning look , 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK GLOB. 283 

“or elsel shall perhaps’be askin’ arteryou, at the other side of 
the green gate, and then I might cut you oat, you know.” 

“ I shall be-sure to be with you,” said Mr. Trotter ; and wring- 
ing Sam’s hand with the utmost fervour, he walked away. ; 

“ Take care, Job Trotter, take care,” said Sam, looking after 
him, “or I shall be one too many for you this time; I shall , in- 
deed.” Having uttered this soliloquy, snd looked after Job till he 
was to be seen no more, Mr. Weller made the best of his way to 
his master’s bed-roora. 

“ It’s all in training, sir;” said Sam. 

“ What’s in training , Sam?” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“ I have found ’em out, sir,” said Sam. 

“ Found out who?” 

“ That ’ere queer customer, and the melan-cholly chap with 
the black hair.” 

“ Impossible , Sam ! ” said Mr. Pickwick , with the greatest 
energy — “ Where are they, Sam ; where are they ? ” 

“ Hush, hush! ” replied Mr. Weller; and as he assisted Mr. 
Pickwick to dress, he detailed the plan of action on which he pro- 
posed to enter. 

“ But when is this to be done, Sam?” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“ All in good time , sir,” replied Sam. 

Whether it was done in good time , or not , will be seen here- 
after. 


CHAPTER XXV. 

WDDEII MR. rent MAGNUS GROWS JEALOUS, AND TBB MIDDLE-AGED LADT APPRE- 
HENSIVE , WHICH BEINGS THE P1CKWICK1ANS WITHIN THE GRASP OF THE LAW. 


When Mr. Pickwick descended to the room in which he and 
Mr. Peter Magnus had spent the preceding evening , he found 
that gentleman with the major part of the contents of the two 
bags, the leathern hat-box, and the brown paper parcel , dis- 
played to all possible advantage on his person, while he himself 
was pacing up and down the room in a state of the utmost excite- 
ment And agitation. 

“ Good morning , sir,” said Mr. Peter Magnus — “'What do 
you think of this , sir?” 

“ Very effective indeed ,” replied Mr. Pickwick , surveying 
the garments of Mr. Peter Magnus with a good-natured smile. 

“ Yes , I think it ’ll do,” said Mr. Magnus. “ Mr. Pickwick , 
sir, I have sent up my card.” 

“ Have you?” said Mr. Pickwick, 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



28 * PAPERS 

b‘ J e iK?l { ?fr^W aiter bswK w^rd , that, she would see 

9%** e ~ ?* $?Y QI ! , sir- it only wants a quarter now. ” 

V Venr neaf the ^inie s^d IVfr, Pichw^efe 


. ^l,y« UV/UI I'iUJv , ; ICUtA 1, t I I ? I 

u jtra , lfisjraiiier near,” replied Mr. Magnus, “ rather too 
ne» tb 1)6 pleafant-. ph ! Mr. Pickwick., sir ?”.. 
p ^^o^fideiic^ is a. great thing in these eases,” observed Mr. 


“ I believe it is,, sir,” said Mr. Peter Magnus.. “ l am very con- 
fident, sir. neally, Mr. Pickwick, I do not see why a man should 
feel any fear in such a case as this, sir. What is it, sir? There’s 
nothing to be ashamed of; it’s a matter of mutual accommoda- 
tion , nothing more. Husband on one side , wife on the other. 
That’s my view of the matter, Mr. Pickwick.” 

“It is a very philosophical one,” replied Mr. Pickwick. “ But 
breakfast is waiting, Mr. Magnus. Come.” 

Down they sat to breakfast , but it was evident , notwithstand- 
ing the boasting of Mr. Peter Magnus, that he laboured under a 
very considerable,* degree of nervousness, of which loss of appe- 
tite, a propensity to upset the tea-things , a spectral attempt at 
drollery, and an irresistible inclination to look at the clock 
every other second , were among the principal symptoms. 

* U U e ~he — he,” tittered Mr. Magnus, affecting cheerful- 
ness , and gasping with agitation. “ It only wants two minutes , 
Mr. Pickwick, Am I pale, sir?” 

“Not very,” replied Mr. Pickwick. 

There was a brief pause. 

“ I y° ur pardon , Mr. Pickwick ; but have you ever done 
sort °f thing in your time? ” said Mr. Magnus. 

“You mean proposing?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Yes';” 


“ Never,” said Mr. Pickwick , with great energy, “ never.” 

“ You have no idea , then , how it’s best to begin? ” said Mr. 
Magnus. 

*‘Why,” said Mr. Pickwick, “I may have formed some 
idea^ upon the subject , but , as I have never submitted them to 
the test of experience, I should be sorry if you were induced to 
regulate your proceedings by them.” 

u I should feel very much obliged to you , for any advice , sir,” 
s ^id Rlr. Magnus, taking another look at the clock, the hand 
of which was verging on the five minutes past. 

Uie profound solemnity 
witn winch that great man could , when he pleased , render his 
re - a *sso deeplyimpressive — “ I should commence , sir, with 
a tribuwi to the lady’s beauty and excellent qualities •, from them , 
sir ’/ .fbbnld diverge to -my .own unworthiness.” 

Very good ,” sa id Mr. Magnus. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF t THB PickWitft Cl(ib. 285 

“ UuWOrrtriiiWS^ fitt'Aft" 'bhiy, miiiaj'sir^^re^ameifMf,’ |*ick- 
wick;‘ A forth shevftftat I was not wholly unworthy, sir, 1 
should take a brief review of my past life , and present!, condition. 

I should argue , bf analogy, that to anybody else Imusf he a 
very, desirable object. Ishould then expatiate on the warmth of 
iny love, and the depth of my devotion. Perhaps Imigtytjipn 

be tempted to seize her hand.” • .'V ( 

“ Yes , I see sald Mr. Magnus V 1 * that Woulujf he p very groat 
point.” ' ' 

“I should then, sir,” continued Mr. Pickwick, growing 
warmer as the subject presented itself in more glowing colours 
before him — “I should then , sir, come to the plain and simple 
question , ‘ Will you have me ? ’ I think I am justified in as- 
suming that, upon this , she would turn away her head.” 

“You think that may be taken for granted ? ” said Mr. Magnus 5 
“ because, if she did not do that at the right place, it would be 
embarrassing.” 

“ I think she would,” said Mr. Pickwick. “ Upon this, sir, 
I should squeeze her hand , and I think — I think , Mr. Magnus 
— that after I had done that , supposing there was no refusal , 
I should gently draw away the handkerchief, which my slight 
knowledge of human nature leads me to suppose the lady would 
be applying to her eyes at the moment, and steal a respectful 
kiss. I think I shouldjriss her, Mr. Magnus ; and at this parti- 
cular point, 1 am decidedly of opinion that if the lady were 
going to take me at all , she would murmur into my ears a bash- 
ful acceptance.” *' 

Mr. Magnus started , gazed on Mr. Pickwick’s intelligent face, 
for a short time in silence , and then ( the dial pointing to the 
ten minutes past) shook him warmly by the hand, and rushed 
desperately from the room. 

Mr. Pickwick had taken a few strides to and fro ; and the small 
hand of the clock following the latter part of his example , had 
arrived at the figure which indicates the half hour, when the 
door suddenly opened. He turned round to greet Mr. Peter 
Magnus , and encountered in his stead the joyous face of Mr. 
Tupman , the serene countenance of Mr. Winkle , and the intel- 
lectual lineaments of Mr. Snodgrass. 

As Mr. Pickwick greeted them, Mr. Peter Magnus tripped 
into the room. 

“ My friends, the gentleman I was speaking of, Mr. Magnus,” 
said Mr. Pickwick. 

, “ Your servant, gentlemen , said Mr. Magnus , evidently in a 

high state of excitement $ Mr. Pickwick , allow me to speak to 
you, one moment, sir.” 

As he said this, Mr. Magnus harnessed his fore-finger to 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



286 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

Mru >Pickwtek?B batton‘-hole ; and , drawing him into a window 
recess, said — 

•"^Congratulate me, Mr. Pickwick ; I followed your advice to 
the very letter.” 

“ And it was all correct; was it?” inquired Mr. Pickwick. 

“It was, sir — could not possibly have been better, replied 
Mr. Magnus - , Mr. Pickwick, she is mine.” 

“ I congratulate you , with all my heart,” replied Mr. Pick- 
wick, warmly shaking his new friend by the hand. 

“ You must see her, sir,” said Mr. Magnus; “ this way, if 
you please. Excuse us for one instant , gentlemen.” And hurry- 
ing on in this way, Mr. Peter Magnus drew Mr. Pickwick from 
the room. He paused at the next door in the passage, and tapped 
gently thereat. 

“ Come in ,” said a female voice. And in they went. 

“ Miss Witherfield ,” said Mr. Magnus , “ allow me to intro- 
duce my very particular friend , Mr. Pickwick. Mr. Pickwick , 
1 beg to make you known to Miss Witherfield.” 

The lady was at the upper end of the room , and as Mr. Pick- 
wick howed , he took his spectacles from his waistcoat-pocket , 
and put them on, a process which he had no sooner gone through, 
than , uttering an exclamation of surprise, Mr. Pickwick retreated 
several paces , and the lady, with a half-suppressed scream , hid 
her face in her hands, and dropped into a chair, whereupon 
Mr. Peter Magnus was struck motionless on the spot, and gazed 
from one to the other, with a countenance expressive of the 
extremities of horror and surprise. 

This certainly was, to all appearance, very unaccountable 
behaviour; but the fact was, that Mr. Pickwick no sooner put 
on his spectacles, than he at once recognised in the future 
Mrs. Magnus the lady into whose room he had so unwarrantably 
intruded on the previous night; and the spectacles had no sooner 
crossed Mr. Pickwick’s nose, than the lady at once identified the 
countenance which she had seen surrounded by all the horrors 
of a night-cap. So the lady screamed , and Mr. Pickwick started. 

“ Mr. Pickwick!” exclaimed Mr. Magnus, lost in astonish- 
ment, “what is the meaning of this, sir? What is the meaning 
of it, sir?” added Mr. Magnus, in a threatening , and a louder 
tone. 

“ Sir,” said Mr. Pickwick , somewhat indignant at the very 
sudden manner in which Mr. Peter Magnus had conjugated 
himself into the imperative mood, “I decline answering that 
question.” 

“ You decline it, sir?” said Mr. Magnus. 

“ I do, sir,” replied Mr. Pickwick ; “ I object to saying any- 
thing which may compromise that lady, or awaken unpleasant 


Digitized by v^ooQle 



OF -1^5 PICRWICK. CUJB. 487 

recollectioi»«i,in hffl* breast, without,: hec caaspati muJi permis- 
sion.” |, no, ,<>*•• ... 

“ Miss iWither field ,” said Mr. PeterMag»u8, ; “dk>iyau know 
this person?” ,1 n 

“ Know him I.” repeated the roiddle-eged tody, hesitating. 

“Yes, know, him, ma’am, I said know him,” replied Mr.' 
Magnus , with ferocity. .u I 

“ I have seen him ,” replied the middle-aged lady. 

“ Where? ” inquired Mr. Magnus, “ where? ” 

“ That,” said the middle-aged lady, rising from her seat, and 
averting her head, “ that I would not reveal for worlds.” 

“ I understand you, ma’am,” said Mr. Pickwick, “ and respect 
your delicacy ; it shall never be revealed by me, depend upon it.” 

“ Upon my word , ma’anff’ said Mr. Magnus, “ considering 
the situation in which l am placed with regard to yourself, you 
carry this matter off with tolerable coolness — tolerable coolness , 
ma’am.” 

“ Cruel Mr. Magnus! ” said the middle-aged lady ; and here 
she wept very copiously indeed. 

“ Address your observations to me , sir,” interposed Mr. Pick- 
wick; l alone am to blame , if anybody be.” 

“.Obi you alone are to blame, are you, sir ? ” said Mr. Magnus ; 
“ I — I— see through this, sir. You repent of your determina- 
tion now, do yon?” 

“ My determination! ” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Your determination , sir. Oh ! don’t stare at me , sir,” said 
Mr. Magnus ; “ I recollect your words last night , sir. You came 
down here , sir, to expose the treachery and falsehood of an 
individual on whose truth and honour you had placed implicit 
reliance— eh? ” Here Mr. Peter Magnus indulged in a prolonged 
sneer ; and taking off his green spectacles— which he probably 
found superfluous in his fit of jealousy— rolled his little eyes 
about, in a manner which was frightful to behold. 

“ Eh?” said Mr. Magnus; and then he repeated the sneer 
with increased effect. “ But you shall answer it, sir.” 

“ Answer what?” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“Never mind, sir,” replied Mr. Magnus, striding up and 
down the room — “Nevermind.” 

There must be something very comprehensive in this phrase 
of “ Never mind ,’’ for we do not recollect to have ever-witnessed 
a quarrel in the street , at a theatre, public room, or elsewhere, 
in which it has not been the standard reply to all belligerent in- 
quiries. “ Do you call yourself a gentleman, sir?” — ‘VNever 
mind , sir.” “ Did I offer to say anything to the young woman r 
sir? Never mind, sir.” “ Do you Want your head knocked 
up against that wall , sir ?” — “Never mind , sir.!’ It is observ- 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



288 - POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

able, too', that there would appear to be some hidden taunt in 
this universal." Neuqr mind which rouses moredndignation in 
the bosom of thaAOdividual addressed, than the most lavish 
abuse could. possibly awaken. . . 

We do. not mean to assert that the application of this brevity 
to himself* struck exactly that indignation to Mr. Pickwick’s 
soul, which it would infallibly have roused in a vulgar breast. 
We merely record the fact that Mr. . Pickwick opened the room 
door, and abruptly called out, “ Tupman , come here.” 

Mr.. Tupman immediately presented himself , wkha look, of 
very considerable surprise. 

“ Tupman said Mr. Pickwick , “ a, secret of some delicacy, 
in which that lady is .concerned , is. the cause of a difference 
which has just arisen between this gfitleman and myself. When 
I assure him, in your presence, that it has no relation to himself , 
and is not in any way connected with his affairs, I need hardly 
beg you to take notice that if he continues to dispute it , he ex- 
presses a doubt of my veracity* which I shall consider extremely 
insulting.” As Mr. Pickwick said this > he looked encyclopedias 
at Mr. Peter Magnus. . . • ; 

Mr. Pickwick’s upright and honourable bearing ^ coupled .with 
that force and energy .of speech which so eminently distinguished 
him, would have .carried conviction ttoany>reasonable<nind^ 
but unfortunately at that particular moment j , themindof 
Mr. Peter Magnus was in anything but reasonable order.' Con- 
sequently, instead of receiving Mr. Pickwick’sexplanatfon as he 
ought to have done,, he forthwith proceeded to work himself into 
a red-hot scorching consuming passion , and to. talkabout wbat 
was due to higown feelings , and afl that sort of’ thing* adding 
force to has declamation by striding to and fro, and -pulling his 
hair,, amusements which be would vary occasionally , hy shaking 
his fipt in Mr. Pickwick’s philanthropic countenances sio i,- v j *,.? 

Mr. Pickwick via his turn , conscious of his own innoceneeand 
rectitude., and-wnitatcd 'by having ! unfortunately iavntehd 'the 
middle-aged <lady, ip suebiam unpleasant affair, was- not an quietly 
disposed: as. was' his wonto'ilJhhr tfonsnquentewttpy' that words 
ran highland: voices highCm and! et>i«ngth-M»CLMagnus told 
Mr. Pickwick he (Should hoar tfronUhiHn^d® 1 w hich(MreiRiokwick 
replied' tfithihtudablo politeness! ^that the-sooner hadieardfrbm 
him, thCi better vwhereapop the middle-aged lady rusted** terror 
fronMhq ffoqmyroufartif whichjiMr.i iTfapmanidnigged'MridPick- 
wick, leaving MiwPeter Magnus tohimsaffaWimeditatiom - 

1 fthe middle-aged tedy hadirniaglcdlnitanhi witbiltefeusyWorid , 
or papfited iftt-aM' v by the mannemUafid ^cUttoins of those who 
makei the .laws and set thefashionsyshewould have known that 
this sort of ferocity is just the most harmless thing in nature 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THB PICKWICK CLUB. 289 

but as she had liv«dt for the most *p&r t in the dduhtfy; ’and'he# 
read the parliamentary debates , she was fittld versed hi' these 
particular tefinemewts of eiviiised fifo. : Accordingly, 
had gained her bed-chamber, bolted herseff in, and'b^uff'to 
meditate on the scene she had just witnessed , the nftst'lertffic 
pictures of stangbter and destruction presented thChiselvfei fOfier 
imagination ; among which, a fall-length portrait of Mr. Peter 
Magnus bornebome by four men , with the eWbeffiShment of a 
whole barreldhtt of bullets' in his left side , was among the very 
least. The more ttoemiddteagedlady meditated , the more ter- 
rified she became; and at length she determined to repair to the 
house ef the principal magistrate of the town , and request him 
to secure the persoas of Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Tupman, without 
delay. 

To this decision, the middle-aged lady was impelled by a 
variety of considerations , the chief of which , was the incon- 
testable proof it would afford of her devotion to Mr. Peter Magnus, 
and her anxiety for his safety. She was too well acquainted with 
his jeateus temperament to venture the slightest allusion to the 
real cause of her agitation on beholding Mr. Pickwick ; and she 
trusted to her own influence and power of persuasion with the 
little man, to quell his boisterous jealousy, supposing that Mr. 
Pickwick were removed, and no fresh quarrel could arise. 
Filled with these reflections, the middle-aged lady arrayed 
herself in her bonnet and shawl , and repaired to the mayor’s 
dwelling straightway. 

Now George Nupkins, Esquire, the principal magistrate 
aforesaid , was about as grand a personage as the fastest walker 
would find out , between sunrise and sunset , on the twenty-first 
of June , which being , according to the almanacks , the longest 
day in the whole year, would naturally afford him the longest 
period for bis search. On this particular morning , Mr. Nupkins 
was in a state of the utmost excitement and irritation , for there 
had been a rebellion in the town ; all the day-scholars at the 
largest day-school, had conspired to break the windows of an 
obnoxious apple-seller, and had hooted the beadle , and pelted 
the constabulary— an elderly gentleman in top-boots, who had 
-been called out to repress the tumult*, and had been a peace- 
officer, man and boy, for half a century at least. And. Mr. 
Napkins was sitting in his easy chair, frowning with majesty, 
and boiling with rage , when a lady was announced on pressing, 
private , and particular business. Mr. ^Nupkins looked' calmly 
terrible, and commanded that the- lady should be shoWh in , 
which command, like ail the mandates of emperors', and ma- 
gistrates , and other great potentates of the earth / was forthwith 
1 . 19 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



290 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 1 

obeyed ; and Miss Witherfield , interestingly agitated , was 
ushered in accordingly. 

“ Muzzle ,” said the magistrate. 

Muzzle was an under-sized footman , with a long body and 
short legs. , 

“ Muzzle.” 

“ Yes , your worship.” 

“ Place a chair and leave the room.” 

“ Yes, your worship.” 

“ Now, ma’am , will you state your business?” said the ma- 
gistrate. 

“ It is of a very painful kind , sir,” said Miss Witherfield. 

“ Very likely, ma’am,” said the magistrate. “ Compose your 
feelings , ma’am.” Here Mr. Nupkins looked benignant. “ And 
then tell me what legal business brings you here, ma’am.” Here 
the magistrate triumphed over the man $ and he looked stern 
again. 

“ It is very distressing to me , sir, to give this information ,” 
said Miss Witherfield, “ but I fear a duel is going to be fought 
here.” 

“ Here , ma’am ! ” said the magistrate. “ Where , ma’am? ” 

“ In Ipswich.” 

“In Ipswich, ma’am — a duel in Ipswich!” said the ma- 
gistrate, perfectly aghast at the notion. “ Impossible , ma’am ; 
nothing of the kind can be contemplated in this town , I am 
persuaded. Bless my soul , ma’am , are you aware of the activity 
of our local magistracy ? Do you happen to have heard , ma’am , 
that I rushed into a prize-ring on the fourth of May last , at- 
tended by only sixty special constables ; and , at the hazard of 
falling a sacrifice to the angry passions of an infuriated multitude , 
prohibited a pugilistic contest between the Middlesex Dumpling 
and the Suffolk Bantam? A duel in Ipswich, ma’am! I don’t 
think — I do not think,” said tbe magistrate, reasoning with 
himself, “ that any two men can have had the hardihood to plan 
such a breach of the peace , in this town.” 

“ My information is unfortunately but too correct,” said the 
middle-aged lady : “ I was present at the quarrel.” 

“ It’s a most extraordinary thing ,” said the astounded magis- 
trate. “Muzzle.” * 

“ Yes, your worship.” 

“ Send Mr. Jinks here, directly — instantly.” 

“ Yes, your worship.” 

Muzzle retired ; and a pale , sharp-nosed , half-fed , shabbily- 
clad clerk , of middle age , entered the room. 

“ Mr. Jinks ,” said the magistrate — “ Mr. Jinks.” 


Digitized by 


Goggle 



291 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 

“ Sir,” said Afar. Jinks. 

“ This lady, Mr. Jinks, has come here, to give information 
of an intended duel to this town.” 

Mr. Jinks , not exactly knowing what to do , smiled a depen- 
dent’s smile. 

“ What are you laughing at, Mr. Jinks? ” said the magistrate. 

Mr. Jinks looked serious , instantly. 

“ Mr. Jinks.,” said the magistrate, “ yoo’re a fool, sir.” 

Mr. Jinks looked humbly at the great man , and bit the top 
of his pen. 

“ You may see something very comical to this information , 
sir; but I can tell you this, Mr. Jinks, that you have very little 
to laugh at,” said the magistrate. 

The hungry-looking Jinks sighed , as if he were quite aware 
of the fact of his having very little indeed , to be merry about; 
and, being ordered to take the lady’s information , shambled to 
a seat, and proceeded to write it down. 

“ This man Piekwick is the principal, I understand?” said the 
magistrate, when the statement was finished. 

“ He is ,” said the middle-aged lady. 

“ And the other rioter— what’s his name , Mr. Jinks? ” 

“ Tupman, sir.” 

“ Tupman is the second ? ” 

“Yes.” 

“ The other principal , you say, has absconded , ma’am? ” 

“ Yes,” replied Miss Witberfield, with a short cough. 

“Very well,” said the magistrate. “These are two cut- 
throats from London, who have come down here, to destroy 
his Majesty’s population , thinking that at this distance from the 
capital , the arm of the law is weak and paralysed. They shall be 
made an example of. Draw up the warrants, Mr. Jinks. Muzzle. 

“ Yes, your worship.” 

“ Is Grammer down stairs?” 

“ Yes, your worship.” 

“ Send him up.” 

The obsequious Muzzle retired , and presently returned , in- 
troducing the elderly gentleman in -the top-boots, who was 
chiefly remarkable for a bottle nose, a. hoarse voice, a snuff- 
coloured surtout, and a wandering eye. 

“ Grummer, ” said the magistrate. 

“ Your wash-u p J’ > ■/< nt, ,i i. 

“ Is the town quiet now?” ' ■ : r . 

“ Pretty well , your wash-iup ,” replied Grammer. “ Pop’lar 
feeling has in a measure subsided, eonsekens o’, the boys having 
dispersed to cricket. ” 

“Nothing but vigorous measures will do, in these times, 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



292 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

Grummer,” said the magistrate, in a ; determined manner. “ If 
the authority of the king’s officers is set at nought, we must 
have thq.pioiact read. Ifthecivil power cannot protect ithese 
windoRPSii-Grummer^ithe military must protect the; civil power, 
and the windows too. I believe that is a maxim of'theeohBti- 

tution m Aftrti ItldsSi? ” < , * ».* i>i«>r >ui tew* ' ■< •« .. 

“ Certainly j sir^’nsaid.finksi, i •<;< t* *u '«•■ -d 

“ Veiny.? good,’?i/&aid.the magistrate , signing the Warrants. 
“ Grummer, you .wall .bring these, .persona before me, this af- 
ternoon. You will* find them at the Great White Horee. iYou 
recollect the ease of .the Middlesex Dumpling and the Suffolk 
Bantam;, Grummer?” . s ^ >•■■■. 

Mr. Grummer intimated, by a . retrospective shake of the 
head, that he should never forget it— as indeed it was not likely 
he would , so long as it continued te he cited daily. ■ 

“ This is even more unconstitutional,” said' the. magistrate; 
“ this is even a greater breach ofthepeaoe, and a/grosser in- 
fringement of his Majesty’s prerogative.; L Mieve ffifedhdg ilfone 
of bis .Majesty’s most undouhted prerogatives <h 
“ Expressly stipulated in' Magna Ghdrta , sir|n;sstidiMn.'iJitiks. 
“ One of the brightest jewels in the British crown', wrung 
from. his Majesty by the Politicals Umon of Beirans4 >I)betf6ve , 
Mr. Jinks?” said themagifttrate. /wad/! eirt <>■! ■y.srr.c.. 

“ Just so, sir/’. .replied Mr. Jinks. <»?,•><■, -im nr w; 

“ Very well,” said the magistrate, d rawing Jamsetfupi proudly ; 
“ it shall notbe violated in tb» portion of hia idsnamfont.- ftiium- 
mer, procure ; assistance , and > execute these Warrants With as 
little debyihs/pomiWe. Muzzie.” ; 

“Yes, your worship.”. ' ■ Miaa 

“ Show the lady outs” ; : ; .tfi 

Miss Witherfield retired, deeply; impressed Wrilh: titer magis- 
trate’s learning and research; Mr* NupkahS; retired to. lhnch ; 
Mr, Jinks (retired within himself — that being the enty retire- 
ment hehad^ except the sofa-bedstead in the smatlparleur which 
was occupied by his landlady^, family in the. day-time e-wand 
Mr. Grummer retired to .washout, by his mode of discharging 
his present eammisaongthe-insttl* whiob .had been fastened upon 
himself , anduthei otber/irspreseQtat*te e£ ihis Majesty vu.ihe 
beadle-^v» ,the/counseoftbe morning. m* ,ooiiaif 

While thfiawiesojute iand- determined preparations foe thd Con- 
servation of the kipgls.pemopwerapendjog ;MrvPicfcwk:k and 
his friends, whottymaconMousatf themiglityievents in progress, 
hadoafcquietly drwmi to dinner.; and verytalkative andcompanion- 
; .abtoithep-ell weray Mr< Bipkwkk was in. the very act of relating 
ti is -adventure of fchepreceding night, to the great‘amusement of 
his followers , Mr. Tupman especially, when the door opened , 




OF THB PICKWICK CMJB. 293 

and a somewhat forbidding countenance peeped into the room. 
The eyes in the forbidding countenance looked very earnestly at 
Mr. Pickwick , for several seconds , and were to all appearance 
satisfied with their investigation ; for the body to which the for- 
bidding countenance belonged , slowly brought itself into the 
apartment , and presented the form of an elderly individual in 
top-boots — not to keep the readerany longer in suspense, in 
short,’ the eyes were the wandering eyes'of Mr. Grummer, and 
the body was the body ef the same gentleman. 

Mr. Grummer’s mode of proceeding was professional , but 
peculiar. His first act was to bolt the door on tbe inside; his se- 
cond , to polish his head and countenance very carefully with a 
, cotton handkerobief ; his third , to place liis hat , with the cotton 
t/ns handkerchief jfiit, on the nearest chair; and his fourth, to produce 
from the breast-pocket of his coat , a short truncheon surmounted 
bya. brazen crown , with which he beckoned to Mr. Pickwick 
with a- grave and ghost-like 1 air. ■ 

Mr.^Snedgrass was tho first to. break the astonished silence. 
He looked steadily at Mr. Grummer for a brief space , and then 
said i emphatically — “ This is a private room , sir — a private 
room.” ' •> ■ • n 

Mr. Grummer shook his head, and repbed — “ No room’s 
private to his Majesty when the streetdoor’s once passed. That’s 
law. Some people maintains, that an Englishman’s house is his 
caktie. That’s gammon.” ■ . . ! ■ * .■>>» - >• - 

Tbe PickwkkiaBS gazed on each other, with wondering eyes. 
“ Which is Mr. Tupman ? ” inquired Mr -Grummer i> . H© had 
an intuitive perception of Mr. Pickwick ; he-knewhkn at once. 
“ My name’s Tupman ,” said that gentiemaw. . ^ -< 

“ My name’s Law,” said Mr. Grummer^. -.f 
„ “ What?” said Mr. Tupman. ■•••,■ ‘ 

“ Law, ’’ relied Mr. Grummer, “ law, civil power, andexeka- 
tive, them's my titles; here’smy authority. Blank Tupman, blank 
Pickwick;— ^against the peace of our sufferin Lord the King — 
statist id that case made and purwided — and all regular. I ap- 
prehend you , Pickwick , Tupman-— the aforesaid.” < 

V Whatido you mean by this insolence V 2 said Mr. Tupman , 
starting a»p— “ Leave themoomy leave the room.” 

“ Halloo ,” said Mr. Grummer^ retreating very expeditiously 
to the door, and opening’ it on inch or two, “ Dubbley.” 

“ Well ,” said a deep voice from the passage. •» ' 

“ Come for’ard , Dubbley,” said Mr. Grummer. 

At the word of eemmand , a dirty-faced man , somethiagiover 
six feet high , and stout in proportion , squeezed himself fthoOugh 
the half-open door, making his face very red in the pvoebss^and 
entered the room. " i ‘ >, ‘ 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



294 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“Is the other specials outside, Dubbley?” inquired Mr. 
Grummer. • 

Mr. Dubbley, who was a man of few words, nodded assent 

“ Oder in the diwision under your charge, Dubbley,” said 
Mr. Grummer. 

Mr. Dubbley did as he was desired ; and half a dozen men, each 
with a short truncheon and a brass crown , flocked into the 
room: Mr. Grummer pocketed his staff and looked at Mr. Dub- 
bley ; Mr. Dubbley pocketed his staff and looked at the division $ 
and the division pocketed their staves and looked at Messrs. 
Tupman and Pickwick. 

Mr. Pickwick and his followers rose as one man. 

• “ What is the meaning of this atrocious intrusion upon my 

privacy?" said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Who dares apprehend me ? ” said Mr. Tupman. 

“ What do you want here , scoundrels? ” said Mr; Snodgrass. 

Mr. Winkle said nothing, but he fixed his eyes on Grummer, 
and bestowed a look upon him , which , if he had had any feeling, 
must have pierced his brain, and come oat oft the Other side. 
As it was , however, it had no visible effect upon him whatever. 

When the executive perceived that Mr. Pickwick and his 
friends were disposed to resist the authority of the law, they very 
significantly turned up their coat sleeves, asifknockingthem 
down in the first instance, and taking them up afterwards; were 
a iherc professional act which had only to be thought' of, to be 
done', as' a matter of course. This demonstration was not lost 
upon Mr. PifckWick. He conferred a few moments with Mr. Tup- 
man apart, -and" then signified his readiness to proceed to the 
mayor’s residence , merely begging the parties then and ‘there 
assembled , to take notice , that it was his firm intention to re- 
sent this monstrous infusion of his privileges as an Englishman 
the instant he was at liberty, whereat the parties then and there 
assembled , laughed very heartily, with the single exception of 
Mr. Grummer, who seemed to consider that any slight cast upon 
the divine right of magistrates , was a species of blasphemy, not 
to be tolerated. 

But when Mr. Pickwick had signified his readiness to bow to 
the laws Of his country, and just When the waiters, and hostlers, 
and chambermaids, and post-boys, who had anticipated a delight- 
ful cotambtionfiOm his threatened obstinacy, began to turn away, 
disappointed and disgusted , a difficulty arose which had not been 
foreseen.' With every sentiihantOf veneration for the constituted 
authorities, Mr.' PiekWick 1 resolutely protested against making 
his appearance in the public streets, Surrounded and guarded by 
the ofilcers'of justice, like a comtnon criminal. Mr. Grummer, in 
the then disturbed state of public feeling (for it was half-holiday, 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 295 

and the boys had not yet gone home), as resolutely protested 
against walking on the opposite side of the way, and taking Mr. 
Pickwick’s parole that he would go straight to the magistrate’s ; 
and both Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Tupman as strenuously objected 
to the expense of a post-coach , which was the only respectable 
conveyance that could be obtained. The dispute ran high, and the 
dilemma lasted long; and just as the executive were on the point of 
overcoming Mr. Pickwick’s objection to walking to the magis- 
trate’s , by the trite expedient of carrying him thither, it was re- 
collected that there stood in the inn yard , an old sedan-chair, 
which having been originally built for a gouty gentleman with 
funded property, would hold Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Tupman , at 
least as conveniently as a modern post-chaise. The chair was 
hired , and brought into the hall; Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Tup- 
man squeezed themselves inside , and pulled down the blinds ; a- 
couple , of chairmen were speedily found, and the procession 
started in grand order. The specials surrounded the body of the 
vehicle , Mr. Grununer and Mr. Dubbley marched triumphantly 
in front* Mr. Snodgrass and Mr. Winkle walked arm in arm 
behind , and the unsoaped of Ipswich brought up the rear. 

The shopkeepers of the town , although they had a Very in- 
distinct notion of the nature of the offenee , could not but be 
much edified and, gratified by this. spectacle. Here was the strong 
arm. of the law, coming down with twenty gold-beater force, 
upon two offenders from the metropolis itself; the mighty engine 
was directed, by their, own magistrate , and worked by their own 
officers; and both the criminals, by their united efforts, were 
securely holed up , in the narrow compass Qf one sedan-chair. 
Many were the expressions of approval and admiration which 
greeted Mr. Grummer, as he headed the cavalcade , staff in 
hand ; loud and long were the shouts which were raised by the 
unsoaped ; and amidst these united testimonials of public appro- 
bation , the procession moved slowly and majestically along. 

Mr. Weller, habited in his morning jacket with the black calico 
sleeves , was returning in a rather desponding state from an 
unsuccessful survey of the mysterious house with the green 
gate, when, raising his eyes, be hebekl a crowd pouring down 
the street, surrounding an object which had very much the ap- 
pearance of a sedan-chair. Willing to divert his thoughts from 
the failure of his enterprise, .he.stepped aside to see the crowd 
pass; and finding that they were cheering away, very much to 
their own satisfaction , .forthwith bpftn (just by way of raising 
his spirits) to cheer too , with all bis might and main. 

. Mr. Grummer passed, and Mr. Dubbley passed, and the sedan 
passed, and the body-guard of'specials passed, and Sam was 
still responding to the enthusiastic cheers of the mob, and 


Digitized by v^ooQle 



296 HIQSHWMQUS PAPERS 

wm isettifcawey 1*& .a^erno- of 
^^ i W^dftlid(ttwugJh&#/eow’9eib9)hadl«iQti|^wfa«<il«t)iik«tof 
ifeeaJftf fawhewsM Wa^csadieBlyjfStoppeiii^iiihe 

aj^ai^Hce.o6M»u(S^kieo«nIiilVfeuSili^grtB«i >.,.t 

ot /fj^^ifei^fti^igieitfHii^lift’bcra^djSMa^WSaibabwwttKy 

.iM bins mm 

!7lf&|big®at}§fR#f repMeddti^beajadiltTthfciB words wftrfeitos* in 
lt|}§ iWntOttun vd bsiowoqiavo suw ■ oanisJgigjn auoiogiv teom >- 
rtomiM^PaWJ it batflOarredi Swiiiaga»i'jomq ari l 'mnoahq najlst 
On^B^^w i ^'Siwntlrepl|! pdlibi^^a^ihotigHJtherwardB 
swr bjiibb otatnuibfrthe AwwfsiHs oMips 
teagicWbritfiBteHteittoy^d *sw -m 
iiisM# Wffl BBfJugbn JapWi^b«B mipttteiMc^iiWBlletfeh a i finn u k 
bift iTWirtbrWSrbttfie icppw4y/stqppb4itbeiictiBitidRnv^d(id<)0(mv 

dliw ,rijgii9l JA ,qn Hoq 1'nblooy 
i fWOl’lB’Eni” SMd7Saten^(Wfeoqhadybsyai«igot‘*n 
Wt^gWelWtilfByanCb ? Blooo art m Usw aslleamirt raibisa^ turn 
Wii4w1#J .back. ,” 8f id (Mj)aiQruia&naf^Wrtootea3agBitiftiiBk04h6 
d^!#yiBf-iR{Sf#fti nwayittttjeariWtnqihpdfbeeh Wonflrodilynattg»- 
BWPtfthhff aJi^3PSi»rtaritiy^i Ilea ol bas ; baieai) noad bud >it 
^RWK^HP if '$^doB&y’ Smt MtvflDfabbleysY^ w 

•«lf‘ I^fiiW©¥y W^iebHgRdtOfiseuqrbld'gtoftidad’ i^iibdiSam, 
f/yAWoC^SB q&tiig S^^taiwenibiiec^iRid'ilfn^tiUvnit'd obliged te 
the other genl’m’n who looks as if he’d just escaped tfKHH’a 
giant’s carry wan , for his wery ’ansome suggestion ; but I should 
perfer your givin’ me a answer to my question , if it’s all the 
same to you. How are .you j^sir ? ’’ This last observation was ad- 
dressed with a patronising air to Mr. Pickwick , who was peep- 
ing through the front window. 

R?V^y ?Rbechiesswiiih i^gp^oii^gsed 
the trupob?PH^!W tpe brass orown, from its particular pocket , 
and flourished it before Sam’s eyes. " >a >•: s»1 ? K! UHTJiV* 

“ Ah ,” said Sam , “ it’s wery pretty, ’specially the crown , 
w ‘Wh. i%jqnnotnm^a Jik&jtbe rett OBa.” vW .-uv! *cw i/a.ioi > 

. &Wd b^ckft ’ * i Sftidr tfae i outraged Mrti . Grummor. Bjtowatynof 
a< Jdm& fQW8 tQ u the j command^ (ha kbrust the Wrass erabtemiof 
royalty , in tp Ssm’f ineck^iofli wfthoone jhnodi, wd seaed! Sam’s 
cojlgr Witty fhft i^h^w KontpliiMntfwhirilfehfe.! Weller returned 
by. frRty&Ahgpbim idcrwnnoutxrt hflBdiqfeaiving; previteJisly, with 
tb^ AM^Wbflfllisidsfatieo v knocked. down-® Ichaitman ftohimte 

1'® s iUimqo i tU Up .Ion V >•<> 1 -s- »: i 

^hptheBiMrojWiihkleiswts de®e(Lwithi a* temporary: attack 'of 
tha^spqeiegpfins^iiy which feniginatea-iti'tySense ofinjury^ier 
as qwtedjfejy. thiftpil'splay yirfi Mr/.W dlterisvaioiff yTisi (uncertain * 
but certain, it isvtbat helno somnnsaW Met Crura itoer fall,, than 
he made** terrific onslaught on-a small boy who stood next him; 




OF THE PICKWICK QU)B. 297 

whereuptm*Mr.rSaodgMM , in's truly Christian spirit . and in 
ord&n that i» anight take no’ one was Wares panno anced wt 1 a very 
louddbihothatihe'toa* going to begin,«nd proceeded 1 *# take off 
his one* ^trittr UM^ utmost! deliberation. He war immediately 
sutfrotmdediaffd secured ;and it> is bWcommen ‘justice both to 
him and Mr. Winkle to sayvttoat they dWiQOt make the Slightest 
attempt) to- moms either r tbeiwdlves or lifa •' Welleb,' Why after 
a most vigorous resistance , was overpowered by number*- and 
taken prisoner. The procesann tben^ i^tomed ^tlm ehkirmen 
flesBined.iUimr'Otatiao&^oiMhthe march was reMcommertcedi 
- i 'Mr. ^fokwiektaintiignatien dating tbe- whdle Of ^ proceed- 
ing was beyonidiaUlbotindBj 'He eeold just see Sam- upsetting the 
special*; la*d 'flying UbotU y in every direction , and that was all 
he cooliseey foi the sedanwtoorewouldn’t open, and the blinds 
wouldn’t poll up. At length, with the assistance of Mr. Tiipman, 
he i managedvtoiposh'hpen tor roof; and mounting on the seat , 
and steading himself as well as he could , by placing bis hand on 
that igUnddmaafs shntridery 1 6fet Pickwick proceeded to address 
tbfeiwtoitndepto dwell tupomtk* unjustifiable manner in* which 
he had been treated ; and to call upNjn thete'to lake notice that 
his servant! <hM Ibeah first assaulted. And" in this ordfef they 
iwaohodiltyM magiStrateVhouse ; tbeChainaen trotting, the 
prtSOBftto foUowlng-, nMrl > Pickwick •' oratorising , a»d the crowd 
slmuttagiqiwes ^tij I/',..: it • <■«.- 

I Hid , HI'/'-. HC' *■!', .\t< "* • U«‘ t s 

i’.u h& iSi ii n<u vi-fi < /■ v- - . >■ fi - -m i ! > 

•;>& w .K»irwr chapter xxvi. *' J ' *■ 

. »» I '** K •' ' • ' •' ' - 

SHOWING) AMONG A VARIETY OF FLEAS ANT BLATTERS, HOW MAJESTIC AND IMPARTIAL 
■ fclRs ‘ wifEAli' ' Aib HOW MR. WELLER* RETURNED MR. job trotter’s shut- 
***«*& i^fenr'AS IT CkMH; — WITH ANOTHER MATTER J WHICH WILL BE 
FOUND IN ITS PLACE* , t i „ 

■ »<t - \? * . * ■ : ■ ;:i - “• : 

Violent was Mr. Weller’s indignationashe wasbome along; 
numerous were the allusions to the personal appearance and 
demeanour of Mr, Gramnter and his companion; and valorous 
weretoe defiances to any six of the gentlemen present; in which 
he vonted his dissatisfaction. Mr. Snodgrass and' Mr. Winkle 
listened with gloomy respect to toe torrent of eloquence which 
their leader poured forth, from toe sedan-chair, and i< tbe i rap¥d 
course of which , not all Mr. Tupman’s earnest entredtieSf to 
have the lid of the vehido< dosed, -were ffbIC' to *dheck ! Ibr'an 
instant; But Mr. Weller^ anger quickly gave way to cariosity, 
when the; procession turned down the identical courtyard "in 
which he had- met with- the runaway JobTrotter ; and curiosity 
was exchanged for a feeling of the most gleeful astonishment , 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



298 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

when 4h&aU-important Mr. Grummer, commanding the sedan- 
bearers Jo halt, advanced with dignified and portentous steps , 
ten the, Mery green gate from which Job Trotter had emerged, 
and gave, a mighty pull at -the bell-handle which hung at the side 
thereof The aping was answered by a very smart and pretty- 
faeed; servant-girl, who, after holding up her hands in astonish- 
ment, at, the rebellious appearance of the prisoners , and the 
impassioned language of Mr. Pickwick, summoned Mr. Muzzle. 
Mr. Muzzle opened one half of the carriage gate, to admit the 
sedan, the captured ones, and the specials; and immediately 
slammed din the faces of the mob, who, indignant at being ex- 
cluded, and anxious to see What followed, relieved their feelings 
by kicking at the gate and ringing the bell , for an hour or two 
afterwards. In this amusement they all took part by -turns, 
except three or four fortunate individuals, who having disco- 
vered a grating in the gate which commanded a view of nothing, 
were staring through it, with the same indefatigable perseve- 
rance with which people will flatten their noses against the front 
windows of a chemist’s shop, when a drunken man , who has 
been run -over by a dog-cart in the street ,. is undergoing a sur- 
gical inspection in the back-parlour. 

At the foot of a flight of steps, leading to the house door, 
which were guarded on either side by an American' aloe in a 
green tub, the sedan-chair stopped ; and Mr. Pickwick and his 
friends were conducted into the hall, from whence, having been 
previously announced by Muzzle , and ordered in by Mr. Nup- 
kins, they were ushered into the worshipful presence of that 
public-spirited officer. 

The scene was an impressive one , well calculated to strike 
terror to the hearts of culprits , and to impress them with an 
adequate idea, of the stem majesty of the law. In front of a big 
book-case , in a big chair , behind a big table , and before a big 
volume, sat Mr. Nupkins, looking a full size larger than any one 
of them, big as they were. The table was adorned with piles 
of papers : and above the further end of it, appeared the head 
and shoulders of Mr. Jinks , who was busily engaged m looking 
as busy as possible. The party having all entered, Muzzle care- 
fully closed the door, and placed himself b&hind his master’s 
chair to await bis orders ; Mr. Nupkins threw himself back, with 
thrilling solemnity, and scrutinised the faces of his unwilling 
visiters. 1 

--“Now* Grummer, who is that person??’ said Mr. Nupkins, 
pointing to Mr. Pickwick, who, as the spokesman of his friends, 
stood hat in hand, bowing with the utmost politeness and respect. 

“ This -here’s Pickwick , your wash-up ,” said Grummer. 

“ Come, none o’ that ’ere, old Strike-a-light ,” interposed Mr. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 299 

Weller, elbowing himself into the front rank — “ Beg your par- 
don, air, but this: here officer o’ yoorn in the gambooge tops , 
’oil never earn a decent livin’ as a master o’ the ceremonies any 
vere. This ere, sir,” continued Mr. Weller, throating Grammar 
aside, and’ addressing the magistrate with pleasant familiarity— 
“ This here is S. Pickwick, Esquire? this here’s Mr. Tnpman*, 
that ’efe’s Mr. Snodgrass ; and birder on , next him on the 
t’other side, Mr. Winkle— all wery nice genttm’n , sir, as you’M 
be wery happy to have the acqnaintance on $ so the sooner you 
commits these here officers o’ youmto the tread-mill for a mouth 
or two, the sooner we shall begin to be on a pleasant under- 
standing. Business first, pleasure afterwards, as King Richard 
the Third said' ven he stabbed the t’other king in the Tower, 
afore be smothered the babbies.” 

At the conclusion of this address, Mr. Weller brushed his 
hat with his right elbow, and nodded benignly to Jinks , who 
had heard him throughout / with unspeakable awe. 

“ Who is this man , Grummer ? ” said the magistrate. 

“ Wery desp’ratech’racter, your wash-up /’replied Grummer. 
“ He attempted ’to rescuetheprisoners, and assaulted the officers 
—so we took him into custody, and brought him here.” 

“ You did' quite right,” replied the magistrate. “ He is evi- 
dently a 'desperate-ruffian J” 

“ He is my servant , sir,” said Mr. Pickwick , angrily. 

“ Oh ! he is your servant , is he ? ” said Mr. Nupkins. “ A 
conspiracy to defeat the ends of justice , and murder its officers. 
Pickwick’s servant. Put that down , Mr. Jinks.” 

Mr. Jinks did so. 

“ What’s your name, fellow?” thundered Mr. Nupkins. 

“ Veller,” replied Sam. 

“ A very good name for the Newgate Calendar,” said Mr. 
Nupkins. 

This was a joke ; so Jinks, Grummer, Dubbley, all the specials, 
and Muzzle, went into fits of laughter of five minutes’ duration. 

“ Put down his name , Mr. Jinks ,” said the magistrate. 

“ Two L’s , old feller,” said Sam. 

Here an unfortunate special laughed again , whereupon the 
magistrate threatened to commit him , instantly. It’s a dange- 
rous thing laughing at the wrong man , in these cases. 

“ Where do you live?” said the magistrate. 

“ Vare-ever I can ,” replied Sam. 

“Put down that/ Mr. Jf&kS,” said the magistrate, Who'was 
fast tisihg into" a rage. • ; " • ' v 1 ' 

“Store it under,” said Sam. ' > 

“He is a vagabond, Mr. Jinks,” said the magistrate. “ He 
is a vagabond on his own statement , is he not . Mr. Jinks ?” ‘ 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



300 . »0ST*¥MO*)S’ PAPERS 

^iQwWnly^ohxffii i «'■ i«;fl /Iiwib mow <tu> •»« 

•‘r> ThflqiTJl catomkhim-^l'llceiHmithim, as sheh,'*’ said Mr. 
Nufkjflfr.) oj wiotemp jpni.R'J '•! «'t t'X.BH. .. 

>t‘ VThift i»nai IWecft 'impartial i iceontry • tor > justice > said Sam. 
‘SThepftiaiiBttnmagtetaite going', as draft 'cniiimithitiisdf, twice 
asiQfteaias/he crftnmiteiot her peopled 
AWhisiSaliy (another special laughed,' and '(hen tried to look 
sa sapernatarally solemn y t hat the magistrate detected' him hn- 

mediatel|r»fi>;il/MH , ■> 

ffiGrUBimeit/nsaidMr. Naphtas 1 , reddening' with passion, 
“kow dare youaelect aUchan inefficient and disreputable 
perowforta/ speeiaii constable, as that' niafl? How dare ydu do 
it -i . i S i* s. •••*! ■ . .•>• 

ft I) am very sorry, your wash-up / stammered Grummer. 
.tblVery. sorry ! ’' said the fhrioas magistrate. " You shall re- 
pent efthis neglect of- duty, Mr. iGrummery yon shall be made 
an example of. Take that tehow?* staff" away. He's drtlnk. 
You’re drunk , fellow.” '< , n »•>•«*-.* ✓ 

“item not drunk, year wOrSWp,” 'said Ithemant 
"You are drank,” returned the magistrate." How ‘dare 
you say yau'acenotdriiHfe, siry wheml-sayTyouare? Doesn’t he 
smell of spirits, Grummer?’?/"' ■>'•<•>■■ ■> <>) < • ibo <■*. •.*. 

fA-Bkutridt, yonrwastwip ,” replied Grummer,' who had tague 
impresses 'that: there waria smehoflrtim somtrwhere. 

>.df I toewdiedid / said >Mr. Nophins* saw he was drank 
wbeoi het firs tcamfe into the room, by his excited eye. Did you 
observe his /elCitedeye y Mr. Jinks? ” M<n.< ■ ■ 'w 

“ Certainly, sir.” 

"I haven’t' touched a drop of spirits this morning/ said the 
man , who was as sober a fellow as need be. 

" How dare you tell me a falsehood?” 6aid Mr. Nupkins. "Is 
not he drunk at Ihasi moment, Mr Jinks?” . h-nmi 
.‘^artainty^k/TepUed’dinks. *« i' / 

JVJjn Jinks /iBaad>the magistrate,"! shall commit that' man,. 
fei^coBitempki Makeoabbtaceatmittal , Max Jtak&?'> mq<?« '» 
Ao4ootnmitteA4benpeeialnnaulfbhave‘beeii ,oalyJinks ? who 
was tke/inagtatitide’a ladwsBDphawngi had j*(fegU education' of 
three- ye**® to * «oaatny)atloriley’«' foiSee ,.wb»s?>«?ed*be •magis- 
trate that he thought it wouldn’t do ; so the magistratemrtUle a 
speech , andrsaid ,/itoatdhitwtoHleration'iQf (thoapeeUffis family, 
he/wouldstwelyrepriiBanfland ffisdhalge bifiau tAcodrdingly the 
specialvwag>atwued owhwhentiy.for a quarter of *o hour, and sent 
abouthis:huancs&b and GnOmraerylk»bMfeypMtmrie, and all the 
other specials murmured fcbeiriailjnifatiow of thtemagnanimity of 
Mr. Nufddnst-iti t < * n#* ,*•»*»* I . ■> u< t - i .■ ■> >■... * -iii w- 

" Now, Mr. Jinks,” said the magistrate , "swear Grummer.”" 


Digitized by 


Google 



or THB PICKWICK OfcUB. 9M 

Grummer was sworn directly*, but as GnunmeftiwWiddred , 
and Mr. Nupkin-’s dionenfwasmeirly araddiyyiMr.' Bfliphtftb cut 
the matter short by putting leading questions to G AMkdibi', 
which ( Grummet answered , asntedy'iniftbe affirms iV lie 

couM. iita'thetesaaunatita wenti arffc, dHvecy smeetto « fti# >dokn- 
fortable ; and two assaults weriq pruned ta gainst? Mr 
4 . threat lagaintt . Mr* . iWlnlde y <ao(di a - push ! hgatns# kMw IS hfod- 
gxas&H.Apd when alb tbiawasi done itoi ttolmeglt4?steCisa|)tefa©‘ 
tion , the magistrate and Mr. Jinks consulted in whispe|khiil>»(ii 
,3Ihn consuUationjblaVing lasted about taebisHirintwy iMriJitiks 
retired, to his lend of? the (table y and tl*e magist rate , tmk «' pre- 
paratory oough y drew. himself -up in bin chair,) aofi$wa» proceed* 
ing to commence his address, when Mr. Pickwick interposed.' 

“ iwbegryour.pardont? siryiforintetrirp ting' you,’’ said' Mr. 
Pickwick, * .‘t but hefeeCywe proceed W express and actnpon , 
any opinion y«i> may hare i formed ory the stateratento which have 
bew» inaadelherey’l*nlsfc*lai»«rj» right t* be heard gr&ras'I 
am personally concerned.” * «tmnt> >* 

“ Hold your ftong«et> air r qaddtthe magistrate^ peremptorily. 

. >‘f I must submit to .yon ,‘alr,’!-rtBautMr. •Wehwieto uof “ 

:i HoldtVowi tongue irsin^'ihrtetpQahdilba'mapstsatp'/^ erl 
shall order an officer to remove yotL^NsmiuinO r BJiiiqa io Ifsm* 

. , “ You may (Order > your uffibereto dowhatsvevyon pJeaw^sir,” 
said Mr. Piekwiokq^ and? I 1 have uotdonbt^rfrtnteithe e y ech e e n 
I hage-ihadofdhe eubonddtidkin.-pfeaerved hibonfe'4tMd / that 
whatever yen t order, they will 'execute ? tat lishalk ttlotl thwti- 
berty,sir, of claiming my righttoibeheardytmtitiami removed 
by force.” *-A>* . /i<>ir.!r> * 

‘ ‘ Pickwick and principle exclain»d Mru iWeUerytetai very 
audible voice. ■ >!.-?/- i>dw.nb 

“Santyibe qnlets” said Mr. Pickwick. *)■ i woH • 

“ Dumb as a drum with a hole inity’repiiediSatni -»d " - 
Mr. Nupkins looked at Mr. Pickwiok with n garfeiofinteosc 
astonistarenGat his -displaying such unwonted tarihritjK; and 
was apparentiyaboat to return a , very angry l/eplyy when Mr. 
Jinks pulled him by the slPeftrtefond wfeisperel/sdmBthing irf his 
ear, To this, tte magistrate rate tmed.8'lMd£asftdild»anBwer,«nd 
thea ithemh igfMyui g-was re»ewedi ? Jkdipi wss ewdentty remon- 
strating. •; • i>. -jut*’ <•' . ot. ('•ibuiow It Idujodj **rt .‘mi: i >‘*- 
At 'length the magistrate ’ , igalping nloston With « vePy had 
graeejhis disNtcliBatioK-tei 'hear anything? tnpre j tarwett to 'Mr. 
Pickwick v and said shnrply-t^^Ayhablh>(Jwatwitn4*«ts*yi?i’ , i ' i' 
*• First,” aaidtMr* PtefaWictap sending hlooktbnwglKlils'speb- 
tacles, under, which •even . Nupkins Quailed. 1 ^hFirStpl’WiSh' to 
know what I and my friend have been brought hewnfdfll? v ' 

“ Must I tell him?” whispered the magistrate'to Jinks. ' 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



302 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“I think you had better, sir,” whispered Jinks to the magis- 
trate > 

“An information has been sworn before' me /' said the ma- 
gistrate, “ that it is apprehended you are going to fight a duel, 
and that the other man , Tupman , is your aider and abettor in 
it Therefore— -eh, Mr. Jinks?” 

“ Certainly, sir.” 

“ Therefore, I call upon you both , to — I think that’s the 
course, Mr. Jinks?” 

“ Certainly, sir.” 

“ To — to — what, Mr. Jinks?” said the magistrate , pettishly. 

“ To find bail , sir.” 

“Yes. Therefore, I call upon you both — as I was about to 
say, when I was interrupted by my clerk— to find bail.” 

“ Good bail ,” whispered Mr. Jinks. 

“ I shall require good bail,” said the magistrate. 

“Townspeople,” whispered Jinks. 

“ They must be townspeople ,” said the magistrate. 

“ Fifty pounds each ,” whispered Jinks , “ and householders , 
of course.” 

“ 1 shall require two sureties of fifty pounds each ,” said the 
magistrate aloud , with great dignity, “ and they must be house- 
holders , of course.” 

“But, bless my heart, sir,” said Mr.’ Pickwick , who, to- 
gether with Mr. Tupman , was all amazement and indignation ; 
“ we are perfect strangers in this town. I have as little know- 
ledge of any householders here , as I have intention of fighting 
a duel with anybody.” 

“ I dare say,” replied the magistrate , “ I dare say— don’t 
you, Mr. Jinks?” 

“ Certainly, sir.” 

“ Have you anything more to say?” inquired the magistrate. 

. Mr. Pickwick had a great deal more to say, which he would 
no -doubt have said, very little to his own advantage, or the 
magistrate’s satisfaction , if he had not , the moment he ceased 
speaking, been pulled by the sleeve by Mr. Weller, with whom 
he was immediately engaged in so earnest a conversation , that 
he suffered the magistrate’s inquiry to pass wholly unnoticed. 
Mr. Nupkins was not the man to ask a question of the kind 
twice over ; . and so, with another preparatory cough , he pro- 
ceeded , amidst the reverential and admiring silence of the con- 
stables j to pronounce his decision. 

He should fine Weller two pounds for the first assault, and 
three pounds for the second. He should fine Winkle two pounds, 
and Snodgrass one pound , besides requiring them to enter into 
their own recognizances to keep the peace towards all his Ma- 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 303 

jesty’s subjects , and especially towards bis liege servant,* Daniel 
Grummer. Pickwick and Tupman he had already held to bail. 

Immediately on the magistrate ceasing to speak; Mr. Pickwick, 
with a smile mantling on his again-good-humoured countenance, 
stepped forward , and said — > • 1 •>■■ 

“I beg the magistrate’s pardon; but may I request a few 
minutes’ private conversation with him, on a matter of -deep 
importance to himself?” > ' 

“ What?” said the magistrate. 

Mr. Pickwick repeated his request. 

“ This is. a most extraordinary request ,” said the magistrate 
— “ A private interview ! ” 

“ A private interview,” replied. Mr. Pickwick, firmly ; only 
as a part of the information which I wish to communicate, is 
derived from my servant , I should wish him to be present. v 

The magistrate looked at Mr. Jinks , Mr. Jinks looked at the 
magistrate , and the officers looked at each other in amazement. 
Mr. Nupkins turned suddenly pale. Could the man Weller, in a 
moment of remorse , have divulged some secret conspiracy for 
his assassination? It was a dreadfol thought. He was a public 
man; and he turned paler, as he thought of Julius Caesar and 
Mr. Perceval. 

The magistrate looked at Mr. Pickwick again , and beckoned 
Mr. Jinks. 

“ What do you think of this request , Mr. Jinks? ” murmured 
Mr. Nupkins. 

Mr. Jinks, who didn’t exactly know what to think of it , and 
was afraid he might offend, smiled feebly, after a dubious 
fashion, and, screwing up the corners of his mouth, shook his 
head slowly from side to side. 

“ Mr. Jinks ,” said the magistrate , gravely, “ you are an ass, 
sir.” 

At this little expression of opinion , Mr. Jinks smiled again — 
rather more feebly than before— and edged himself, by degrees, 
back into his own corner. 

Mr. Nupkins debated the matter within himself for a few se- 
conds, and then, rising from his chair, and requesting Mr. 
Pickwick and Sam to follow him, led the way into a small room 
which -opened into the justice parlour. Desiring Mr. Pickwick 
to walk to the farther end of the little apartment , and holding 
his hand upon the half-closed door, that he might be able to 
effect an immediate escape, in case there was the least tendency 
to a display of hostilities , Mr. Nupkins expressed his readiness 
to hear the communication , whatever it might be. 

“ I will come to the point at once, sir,” said Mr. Pickwick; 
“ it affects yourself, and your credit, materially. I have every 


Digitized by v^ooQle 



304 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

reason to- believe, sir, that you are harbouring m your house a 

grossiraportor! ” • 

“TWo,” interrupted Sam, “ Mulberry agin all natur, for tears 
and wHtainny.” 

“ Sam," said Mr. Pickwick, “ if I am to render myself in- 
telligible to this gentleman, L must beg you to control your 
feelings.” 

“ Wery sorry, sjr,” replied Mr. Weller; “ but when I think 
o’ that ’ere Job , I can’t help opening the Walve a inch or two.” 

“ In one word , sir,” said Mr. Pickwick , “ is my servant 
right in suspecting that a certain Captain Fitz-Marshali is in the 
habit of visiting here? Because,” added Mr. Pickwick, ha he 
saw that Mr. Nupkins was about to offer a very indignant inter- 
ruption — “ because , if he be , I know that person to be a — ” 

“ Hush, hush said Mr. Nupkins, closing the door. “Know 
him to be what, sir?” 

“ An unprincipled adventurer— a dishonourable character — a 
man who preys upon society, and makes easily-deceived people 
his dupes, sir ; his absurd, his foolish, his wretched dupes, sir,” 
said the excited Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Dear me,” said Mr. Nupkins, colouring up very red, and 
altering his whole manner directly. “ Dear me, Mr. — ■” 

“ Pickwick,” said Sam. 

“ Pickwick,” said the magistrate, “ dear me, Mr. Pickwick 
— pray take a seat — you cannot mean this? Captain Fitz- 
Marshali!” 

“ Don’t call him a cap’en ,” said Sam , “ nor Fitz-Marshali 
neither ; he ain’t neither one nor t’other. He’s a strolling actor, 
he is, and his name’s Jingle; and if ever there was a wolf in a 
mulberry suit , that ere Job Trotter’s him.” 

“ It is very true , sir,” said Mr. Pickwick , replying to the 
magistrate’s look of amazement; “my only business in this 
town , is to expose the person of whom we now speak.” 

And Mr. Pickwick proceeded to pour into the horror-stricken 
ear of Mr. Nupkins, an abridged account. of all Mr. Jingle’s 
atrocities. He related how he had first met him , how he had 
eloped with Miss Wardie , how he had cheerfully resigned the 
lady for a pecuniary consideration, how he had entrapped him 
into a lady’s boarding-school at midnight , and how he (Mr. Pick- 
wick) now felt it his duty to expose his assumption of his present 
name and rank. 

As the narrative proceeded , all the warm blood in the body 
of Mr. Nupkins tingled up into the very tips of his ears. He had 
picked up the captain at a neighbouring race-course. Charmed 
with his long list of aristocratic acquaintance, his extensive 
travel, and his fashionable demeanour, Mrs. Nupkins and Miss 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



■OF TH£> PieKWHGKi jOUiB. 305 

Nupkins hadexhibjteduCmsMtin Fita-MarshalL, araiiflwptediGap- 
tain Fitz-Marshall , and hijrled Captain Fitz-Marskefirrlltedilie 
devoted heads of, theiiysetaetiBihcle afiaequaiqtancev untilr'their 
bosom friends , Mrs. Porkenham and the Miss Porken^n^i and 
Mr. Sidney Porkenham , were ready to burst with. jealousy- and 
despair. vAnd now, to hear after all , that he .waa a needy .ad- 
venturer, a strolling player, and if not a swindler, something) so 
Very* lik<Mti,vth»t it w«;hard tn teUitjhe difference!. Heavens! 
what woqld.fbe PQEkenhamS'Sayi^hat would be .the triumph 
of Mr.. Sidney Por>fi«hWih when! fee found that his., addresses 
had been slighted for sneh.ajimlr!' How should, he nteotthei eye 
of old Porkenham at the next Quarter Sessions?-* and what a 
handle , would it he .for- the. opposition magisterial party, <if the 
story got abroad! 

“But after all,” said Mr. Nupkins , brightening up for a, mo- 
ment after a long pause ; “ after all , this is a mere statemept. 
Captain FitsrMarshall ia a man of, very: engaging manners , — 
and, I dare, say, has maay ; ene»ies. Wbat proof have you, of 
the truth of theseiEepresentalioas? ”* ; i/ ■ 

“ Confront me with him,” said/ Mu.. Pickwick; “ that is all I 
ask, and.all I requjne. i CpnfroBt. hinr with me r and my friends 
here; you^ will want no fprtheptpropf.” u ! ■ • 

“ Why,” said Mr. Nupkins, “ that might beyery,efl»dy ( done, 
for, be* -will ho here torn»ght , end then there wouldjbe«er<|cca- 
sion to, makes the matter public „ -just,-*- just??- for the ^yenng 
fnan’s own sake , you know. I — I — should like to consult? Mrs* 
Nupkins on the. propriety pf the step, in the first instance, 
though. At all events, Mr. Pickwick, we must despatch, this 
legal business before we ean do anything else. Pray step back 
into the next room.” , 

Into the next room, they went. , 

, “ Grummer,”,said the magistrate, in an awful voice. 

“ Your yygsh-yp ,” replied Grummer, with the .smfieof g fa- 

VOlirittW ! f! .. •... <K L'i 

Comejycqm e s sir,;’ said the magistrate, sternly; “:don’t let 
mceee any pf tbi$ lpyity here. It is very uahep ppiing , gndil ( ,can 
assuse you.^atYP 0 hgyeiv^yJittJe te smile ah ttaMPtyOt 
yongayemejm&ppw) 

“ Yoi Vf jsv^hrM? ^ ^ RWn.ersj,! 4 ife” a « , }iai & 
“,0b ,„yw ^fe.jfiftftf^edtvSre/ywVi’j/eaidi tbfhWgj?^.- 
“ Mr. Jinks , you observe this confusion? ” [ me <, rr ,. , 

“ Certewiy, sip/’.^pfied^n^. £ >/iifiTi£n aril t/ 

“ Now,” said, the jnagistratp,, ^‘;^. ( r^t f *y41«!B(rtM e, W n ( ; > 
Grummer, andUgaip I warp.ypp.tojip eprfifg^^ Jinks , take 
his words down.”. . r >. t „> 3,, 

The onfortunate Grummer proceeded to.re-stgte.his complaint, 
1. 20 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


306 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS ■ 

but , wbat between Mr, Jinks’s taking down his words , and the 
magistrate’s taking them up ; his natural tendency to rambling , 
an<j, his extreme confusion , he manned to get involved in 
something under three minutes , in such a mass of entanglement 
and contradiction , that Mr. Napkins at once declared he didn’t 
believe him. So the fiuep were remitted, and Mr. Jinks found a 
couple of hail in no time. And all these solemn proceedings 
having been satisfactorily concluded , Mr. Grummer was igntf- 
miniously ordered out — an awful instance of the instability of 
human greatness , and the uncertain tenure of great men’s 
favour. 

Mrs. Nupkins was a majestic female in a blue gauza turban 
and a light brown wig. Miss N upkins possessed all her mamma’s 
haughtiness without the turban , and all her ill-nature without 
the wig \ and whenever the exercise of these two amiable quali- 
ties involved mother and daughter in some unpleasant dilemma , 
as they not unfrequenlly did , they both concurred in laying the 
blame on the shoulders of Mr. Nupkins. Accordingly, when 
Mr. Nupkins sought Mrs. Nupkins, and detailed the communi- 
cation which had been made by Mr. Pickwick, Mrs. Nupkins 
suddenly recollected that she had always expected something of 
the kind that she had always said it would be so; that her ad- 
vice was never taken •, that she really did not know what Mr. 
Nupkins supposed she was ; and so forth. 

“ The idea ! ” said Miss Nupkins , forcing a tear of very scanty 
proportions, into the corner of each eye, “ the idea of my being 
made such a fool of! ” 

“ Ah , you may thank your papa , my dear,” said Mrs. Nup- 
kins 5 “ how I have implored and begged that man to inquire 
into the captain’s family connections ; how I have urged and 
entreated him to take some decisive step! I am quite certain no- 
body would believe it — quite.” 

“ But, my dear,” said Mr. Nupkins. 

“ Don’t talk to me, you aggravating thing, don’t,” said Mrs. 
Nupkins. 

“ My love,” said Mr. Nupkins, “ you professed yourself very 
fond of Captain Fitz-Marshall. You have constantly asked him 
here , my dear, and you have lost no opportunity of introducing 
him elsewhere.” 

“ Didn’t I say so , Henrietta?” said Mrs. Nupkins, appealing 
to her daughter with the air of a much-injured female — “ Didn’t 
I say that your papa would turn round , and lay all this at my 
door ? Didn’t I say so ? ” Here Mrs. Nupkins sobbed. 

“ Oh pa ! ” remonstrated Miss Nupkins. And here she sobbed 
too. 

“ Isn’t it too much , when he has brought all this disgrace 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PIGKWteK 'CLUB. 307 

and ridicule upon uS , for him to taunt me with being the 'cattee 
of it?” exclaimed Mrs. Nupkins. 

“ How can we ever show ourselves in society?” said Miss 
Nupkins. 

“ How can we face the Porkenhams? ” said Mrs. Nupkins. 

“Or the Griggs’s?” said Miss Nupkins. 

“ Or the Slummintowkens?” said Mrs. Nupkins. “ But what 
does your papa care? What is it to him?" At this dreadfhl re- 
flection, Mrs. Nupkins wept with mental anguish, and Miss 
Nupkins followed on the same side. 

Mrs. Nupkins’s tears continued to gush forth, with great 
velocity, until she had gained a little time to think the matter 
over, when she decided in her own mind , that the best thing to 
do , Would be to ask Mr. Pickwick -and his friends to remain 
until the captain’s arrival , and then to give Mr. Pickwick the 
opportunity he sought. If it appeared that he had spoken truly, 
the captain could be turned out of the house without noising 
the matter abroad, and they could easily account to the Porken- 
hams for his disappearance, by saying that he had been ap- 
pointed , through the Court influence of his family, to the go- 
vernor-generalship of Sierra Leone, or Sangur Point, or any 
other of those salubrious climates, which enchant Europeans so 
much , that, When they once get there , they can hardly ever 
prevail upon themselves to come back again. 

When Mrs. Nupkins dried up her tears, Miss Nupkins dried 
up Tier's, and Mr. Nupkins was very glad to settle the matter as 
Mrs. Nupkins had proposed. So Mr. Pickwick and his friends, 
having washed of all marks of their late encounter, were intro- 
duced to the ladies, and soon afterwards to their dinner $ and 
Mr. Weller, whom the magistrate, with his peculiar sagacity, had 
discovered in half an hour to be one of the finest fellows alive, 
was consigned to the care and guardianship of Mr. Muzzle, 
who was specially enjoined to take him below, and make much 
of him. 

“ How de do , sir? ” said Mr. Muzzle , as he conducted Mr. 
Weller down the kitchen stairs. 

w Why, no considerable change has taken place in the state 
of my system , since I see you cocked up behind your governor’s 
chair in the parlour, a little vile ago ,” replied Sam. 

“ You will excuse my not taking more notice of you then ,” 
said Mr. Muzzle. “ You see, master hadn’t introduced us, then. 
Lord , how fond he is of you , Mr. Weller, to be sure ! ” 

“ Ah ,” said Sam , “ what a pleasant chap he is ! ” 

“ Ain’t he? ” replied Mr. Muzzle. 

“ So much humour ! ” said Sam. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



308 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“ And such a man to speak said Mr. Muzzle. “ How his 
ideas flow, don’t they?” 

“‘Wonderful,” replied Sam; “they comes a pouring out, 
knocking each other’s heads so fast , that they seems to stun one 
another; you hardly know what he’s arter, do you?” 

“ That’s the great merit of his style of speaking ,” rejoined 
Mr. Muzzle. “ Take care of the last step , Mr. Weller. Would 
you like to wash your hands , sir; before we join the ladies ? 
Here’s a sink , with the water laid on , sir, and a clean jack towel 
behind the door.” 

“ Ah, perhaps I may as vel have a rinse,” replied Mr. Weller, 
applying plenty of yellow soap to the towel, and rubbing away, 
till his face shone again. “ How many ladies are there? ” 

“ Only two in our kitchen ,” said Mr. Muzzle, “ cook and 
’ousemaid. We keep a boy to do the dirty work , and a gal 
besides , but they dine in the washus.” 

“ Oh , they dines in the washus , do they?” said Mr. Weller. 

“ Yes,” replied Mr. Muzzle; “ we tried ’em at our table when 
they first come, but we couldn’t keep ’em. The gal’s manners 
is dreadful vulgar ; and the boy hreathes so very hard while he’s 
eating, that we found it impossible to sit at table with him.” 

“ What a young grampus ! ” said Mr. Weller. 

“ Oh , dreadful ,” rejoined Mr. Muzzle; “ but that is the worst 
of country service , Mr. Weller ; the juniors is always so very 
savage. This way, sir, if you please — this way.” 

And preceding Mr. Weller, with the utmost politeness , Mr. 
Muzzle conducted him into the kitchen. 

“ Mary,” said Mr. Muzzle to the pretty servant-girl, “ this 
is Mr. Weller, a gentleman as master has sent down, to be 
made as comfortable as possible.” 

“ And your master’s a knowin’ hand — and has just sent me 
to the right place ,” said Mr. Weller, with a glance of admiration 
at Mary. “ If I was master o’ this here house, I should alvays 
find the materials for comfort vere Mary vas.” 

“ Lor, Mr. Weller! ” said Mary, blushing. 

“ Well , I never ! ” ejaculated the cook. 

“ Bless me, cook, I forgot you,” said Mr. Muzzle. “ Mr. 
Weller, let me introduce you.” ■ 

“ How are you, ma’am?” said Mr. Weller. “ Wery glad to 
see you , indeed , and hope our acquaintance may be a long ’un , 
as the gen’lm’n said to the ft’ pun’ note.” 

When this ceremony of introduction had been gone through, 
the cook and Mary retired into the back kitchen to titter for ten 
minutes; and then returning, all giggles and blushes, they sat 
down to dinner. 


Digitized'by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 


309 

. Mr. Weller’s easy manner and conversational powers had such 
irresistible influence with his new friends, that before (he dinner 
was half over, they were on a footing of perfect intimacy, and in 
possession of a full account of the delinquency of Job Trotter. 

“ I never could a-bear that Job ,” said Mary. • • 

• “ Nomore you never ought to, my dear ” replied Mr. Weller. 

“ Why not?” inquired Mary. 

“ Cos ugliness and svindlin’ never ought to be formiliar vith 
elegance and wirtew,” replied Mr, Weller. “Ought they, 
Mr. Muzzle?” 

“ Not by no means ,” replied that gentleman. 

Here Mary laughed', and said the cook had made her ; and the 
cook laughed, and said she hadn’t. 

“ I han’t got a glass ,” said Mary. 

V “ Drink vith me, my dear,” said Mr. Weller. Put your lips 
to this here tumbler, and then I can kiss you by deputy.” 

“ For shame , Mr. Weller ,” said Mary. 

“ What’s a shame , my dear? ” 

“Talkin’ in that way.” 

“ Nonsense ; it ain’t no harm. It’s natur •, ain’t it, cook ?” 

“ Don’t ask meimperence ,” replied the cook, in a high state 
of delight : and hereupon the cook and Mary laughed again , 
till what between the beer , and the cold meat , and the laughter 
combined , the latter young lady was brought to the verge of 
choaking — an alarming crisis from which she was only reco- 
vered by sundry pats on the back, and other necessary atten- 
tions , most delicately administered by Mr. Samuel Weller. 

In the midst of all this jollity and conviviality , a loud ring was 
heard at the garden-gate, to which the young gentleman who 
look his meals in the washhouse , immediately responded. Mr. 
Weller was in the height of his attentions to the pretty house- 
maid ; Mr. Muzzle was busy doing the honours of the table; and 
the cook had just paused to laugh , in the very act of raising a 
huge morsel to her lips , when the kitchen-door opened , and in 
• walked Mr. Job Trotter. < 

We have said in walked Mr. Job Trotter , but the statement 
is not distinguished by our usual scrupulous adherence to fact. 
The door opened , and Mr. Trotter appeared. He would have 
walked in, and was in the very act of doing so indeed, when 
catching sight of Mr. Weller, he involuntarily shrunk back a 
pace or two , and stood gazing on the unexpected scene before 
him , perfectly .motionless with amazement and terror. 

“ Here he is ,” said Sam , rising with great glee. “ Why we 
were that wery moment a speaking o’ you. How are you? Vere 
have you been? Come in.” 

And laying his hand on the mulberry collar of the unresisting 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



310 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

Job , Mr. Weller dragged him into the kitchen ; and locking the 
door , handed the key to Mr. Mazzle, who very Coolly buttoned 
it up, in'a 'side-pocket. 

“ WeH , here's a game ,” cried Sam. “ Only think o’ my mas- 
ter havin’ the pleasure o’ meeting your’n , up stairs, and toe 
havin’ the joy o' meejin’ you down here. How are you getlin’ 
on, and how is the chandlery bis’ness likely to do? Vel,Iamso 
glad to see you. How 1 happy you look l It’s quite a treat to see 
you, ain’t it, Mr. Muzzle?” 

“ Quite ,” said Mr. Muzzle. 

“So eheerfol he is,” said Sam. 

“ In such good spirits ,” said Muzzle; 

“And so glad to see us — that makes it so much comfort- 
able,” said Sam. “ Sit down; sit down.” 

Mr. Trotter suffered himself to be forced into a chair by the 
fireside. He cast his small eyes first on Mr. Weller , and then 
on Mr. Muzzle, but said nothing. 

“ Well , now,” said Sam , “ afore these here ladies , I should 
just like to ask you , as a sort of curiosity, vether you don't con- 
sider yourself as nice and veil-behaved a young gen’lm’n as ever 
used a pink check pocket-handkerchief , and the number four 
collection?” 

“ And as was ever a-going to be married to a cook ,” said that 
lady, indignantly. “Thewillin!” 

■ " “ Atid leave off his evil ways , and set up in the chandlery line, 
arterwards ,” said the housemaid. 

“ Now, I'H tell you what it is, young man ,” said Mr. Muzzle, 
solemnly, enraged at the last two allusions, “■this here lady 
(pointing to the cook) keeps company with roe 5 and when you 
presume, sir, to talk of keeping chandlers’ shops with her, you 
injure me in one of the most delicatest points in which one man 
can injure another. Do you understand that , sir?” 

Here Mr. Muzzle , who had a great notion of his eloquence , 
in which he imitated his master, paused for a reply. 

But Mr. Trotter made no reply. So Mr. Muzzle proceeded 
in a solemn manner — 

“ It’s very probable, sir, that you won’t be wanted up stairs 
for several minutes, sir, because my master is at this moment 
particularly engaged in settling the hash of yottr master, sir; and 
therefore you’ll have leisure, sir, for a little private talk with 
me, sir. Do you understand that , sir? ” 

Mr. Muzzle again paused for a reply ; and again Mr. Trotter 
disappointed him. 

“ Well, then ,” said Mr. Muzzle , “ I’m very sorry to have to 
explain myself before the ladies , but the Urgency of the case will 
be my excuse. The back kitchen’s empty, sir ; if you will step in 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 311 

there, sir, Mr. WeHer will see fair, and we can have mutual 
satisfaction ’till the bell rings. Fellow me, sir.” 

As Mr. Muzzle uttered these words , he took a step or two 
towards the door? and by way of saving time , began to pull off 
bis ceat a» he- walked along. 

Now the cook no sooner heard the concluding words of this 
desperate challenge, and saw Mr. Muzzle about to put it into 
execution, then she uttered a loud and piercing shriek-, and 
rushing on Mr. Job Trotter, who rose from his chair on the 
instant , tore and buffeted his large flat face , with an entergy 
peculiar to excited females , and twining her hands in his long 
black hair, tore therefrom about enough to make five or six dozen 
of the verylargest-sized mourning-rings. Having accomplished 
fKis ~feaf J with aU ^he ardour which her devoted love for Mr. 
Muzzle inspired , she staggered back and being a lady of very 
excitable and delicate feelings , instantly fell under the dresser, 
and fainted away. 

At this moment, the bell rang. 

“ That’s, for you. Job, Trotter,” said Sam-, and before Mr. 
Trotter could offer remonstrance or reply — even before he had 
time to stanch the wounds inflicted by the insensible lady — Sam 
seized one arm and Mr. Muzzle the other-, and one pulling be- 
fore, and the other pushing behind, they conveyed him up 
stairs, and into the parlour. 

It. was an impressive tableau. Alfred Jingle , Esquire , alias 
Captain Fitz-Marshall , was standing near the door with his hat 
in bis hand , and a smile on his face, wholly unmoved by his very 
unpleasant situation. Confronting him, stood Mr. Pickwick, 
who had evidently been inculcating some high moral lesson , 
for his left hand was beneath his coat tail , and his right extended 
in air, as was his wont when delivering himself of an impressive 
address. At a little distance stood Mr. Tupman with indignant 
countenance , carefully held back by his two younger friends 5 
and at the further end of the room were Mr. Nupkins, Mrs. 
Nupkins, and Miss Nupkins, gloomily grand, and savagely 
vexed. 

“ What prevents me ,” said Mr. Nupkins , with magisterial 
dignity, as Job was brought in— “ what prevents .me from 
detaining these men as rogues aad impostors? It is a foolish 
mercy. What prevents me?” 

“ Pride , old fellow, pride,” replied Jingle , quite at his ease. 
“ W©uMa’t*ido — no go — caught a captain, eb?— ha! ha! 
very good — husband for daughter — biter bit — make it public 
— not for worlds — look stupid — very ! ” 

“ Wretch,” said Mrs. Nupkins, “ we scorn your base in- 
sinuations.” 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



312 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

‘ ‘ I always hated him ,” added Henrietta. 

“ Oh, of course,” said Jingle. “ Tall young man — old lover 
— Sidney; Porkenham— rich— fine fellow — not so rich as cap- 
tain , though , eh ? — turn him away — off with him — anything 
for captain r-^nothing -like captain anywhere — all the girls — 
raving mad — eh , Job , eh ? ” 

Here Mr. Jingle laughed very heartily ; and Job, rubbing his 
hands with delight, uttered the first sound he had given vent 
to, since he entered the house— alow noiseless chuckle which 
seemed to intimate that he enjoyed his laugh too much , to let 
any of it escape in sound. 

“Mr. Nupkins,” said the elder lady^ “thisis not a fit con- 
versation for the servants to overhear.' Let these wretches be 
removed.” , 

“ Certainly, my dear,” said Mr. Nupkins. “ Muzzle.” 

“ Your worship.” 

“ Open the front door.” ■ ’ 

“ Yes, your worship.” 

“ Iieave the house,” said Mr. Nupkins, waving his hand 
emphatically. 

Jingle smiled, and moved towards the door, ■ 

“ Stay,” said Mr. Pickwick. . ■ - . 

Jingle stopped. 

“ I might ,” said Mr. Pickwick , “ have taken amnoh greater 
revenge for the treatment I have experienced at your bands , and 
that of your hypocritical friend there.” 

Here Job Trotter bowed with great politeness, and laid his 
hand upon his heart. 

“ I say,” said Mr. Pickwick, growing gradually angry, “ that 
I might have taken a greater revenge , but I content myself with 
exposing you , which I consider a duty I owe to society. This is 
a leniency, sir, which I hope you will remember.” 

When Mr. Pickwick arrived at this point, Job Trotter, with 
facetious gravity, applied his hand to his ear, as if desirous not 
to lose a syllable he uttered. 

“ And I have only to add, sir,” said Mr. Pickwick, now 
thoroughly angry, “that I consider you a rascal, and a — a 
ruffian — and — and worse than any man I ever saw , or heard 
of, except that very pious and sanctified vagabond in the mul- 
berry livery.” 

“ Ha •' ha! " said Jingle, “ good fellow, Pickwick— fine heart 
f — stout old boy — but must not be passionate — bad thing, very 
* ’ .■ bye , bye — SCe you. again some day — keep up your spirits — 

now Job— trot.” .. , \.V7T7 ! ' .. 

With these words, Mr. .Jingle stuck on bis hat in his old 
fashion , and strode out of the room. Job Trotter paused , looked 


Digitized by 


Google 





OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 


313 

round , smiled , and then with a bow of mock solemnity to Mr. 
Pickwick, and a wink to Mr. Weller, the audacious slmess of 
which baffles all description , followed the footsteps of his hope- 
ful master. 

“ Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick , as Mr. Weller was following. 

“ Sir.” 

“ Stay here.” 

Mr. Weller seemed uncertain. 

“ Stay here ,” repeated Mr. Pickwick; , 

“ Mayn’t I polish that ere Job off, in the front garden? ’’said 
Mr. Weller. 

“ Certainly not ,’? replied Mr. Pickwick. 1 > 

“ Mayn’t I kick him out o’ the gate, sir? ’’said Mr. Weller. 

“ Not on any account ,” replied his master. 

For the first time since his engagement, Mr. Weller looked , 
for a moment , discontented and unhappy. But his countenance 
immediately cleared up , for the wily Mr. Muzzle , by concealing 
himself behind the street-door, and rushing violently out , at the 
right instant , contrived with great dexterity to overturn both 
Mr. Jingle and his attendant , down the flight of steps, into 1 the 
American aloe tubstbat stood beneath. 

“ Having discharged my duty, sir,” said Mr. Pickwick to Mr. 
Nupkins, “ I will, with my friends, bid you farewell. While 
we thank you for such hospitality as we have received , permit 
me to assure you in our joint names that we should not have ac- 
cepted it , or consented to extricate ourselves in this way, from 
our previous dilemma , had we not been impelled by a strong 
sense of duty. We return to London to-morrow. Your secret is 
safe with us.” 

Having thus entered bis protest against their treatment of the 
morning , Mr. Pickwick bowed low to the ladies ; and notwith- 
standing the solicitations of the family, left the room with his 
friends. 

“ Get your hat , Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ It’s below stairs, sir,” said Sam and he ran down after it. 

Now there was nobody in the kitchen, but the pretty house- 
maid ; and as Sam’s hat was mislaid , he had to look for it , and 
the pretty housemaid lighted him. They had to look all over the 
place for the hat 5 and the pretty housemaid, in her anxiety to 
find it , went down on her knees , and turned over all the things 
that were heaped together in a little comer by the door. It was 
an awkward corner. You couldn’t get at it without shutting the 
doonJust. 

“ Here it is,” said the pretty housemaid. “ This is it, ain’t it?” 

“ Let met look ,” said Sam. 

The pretty housemaid had stood the candle on the floor ; and 


Die by v^.ooQle 



31 4 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

as it gave a very dim kght , 6am was obliged to go down on his 
knees before tie could see whether it really was his own hat or 
not. It was a remarkably small corner, and so— it was nobody’s 
fault but the man’s who built the house — Sam and the pretty 
housemaid were necessarily very dose together. 

“Yes, thisis it,” said Sam. “ Good bye.” 

“ Good bye ,” said the pretty housemaid. 

1 Good bye,” said Sam ; and as he said it , be dropped the hat 
that had cost so much trouble looking for. 

“ How awkward you are,” said the pretty housemaid. “ You’ll 
lose it again, if you don’t take care.” 

So just to prevent his losing it again , she put it on .for him. 

Whether it was that the pretty housemaid’s face looked pret- 
tier still, when it was raised towards Sam’s, or whether it was 
the accidental consequence of their being so near each other, is 
matter of uncertainty to this day, but Sun kissed her. - 

“ You don’t mean to say you did that on purpose? ” said the 
pretty housemaid , blushing. 

“ No , I didn’t then said Sam $ u but I will now.” 

So> he kissed her again. 

“ Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick , calling over the bannisters. 

“ Coming, sir,” replied Sara, running up stairs. 

“ How, long you have been ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ There was something behind the door, sir, which perwented 
our getting it open , for ever so long,” replied Sam. 

And this'was the first passage of Mr. Welter’s first love. 


CHAPTER XXVII. 

WHICH COHTA1HS A BBIEF ACCOUNT OF THE PROGRESS OF THE ACTIOH OF BARBELL 
AGAINST PICKWICK. 


Having accomplished the main end and object of his journey 
by the exposure of Jingle, Mr. Pibkwick resolved on immediately 
returning to London , with the view of becoming acquainted 
with the proceedings which had been taken against him , in the 
mean time , by Messrs. Dodson and Fogg. Acting upon this 
resolution with all the energy and decision of his character, he 
mounted to the back seat of the first coach which left Ipswich , 
on the morning after the memorable occurrences detailed 1 at 
length in the two preceding' chapters $ and accompanied by his 
three friends and Mr. Samuel Weller, arrived in the metropolis, 
in perfect health and safety, the same evening. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF THE PICKWICK. CLUB. 315 

Here the friends fora short time-separaftoL Messrs. Tupman, 
Winkle , andSoodgrtua , repaired to their several homes to make 
such preparations as might be requisite for their, forthcoming 
visit to Dingley Dell ; and Mr. Pickwick and Sam look up Ibeir 
present abode m very good , old-fashioned , and comfortable 
quarters, to wit, the George and Vulture Tavern and Hotel, 
George Yard , Lombard-street. 

Mr. Pickwick had dined , finished his second pint of particular 
port, pulled his silk handkerchief over his head, put his feet on 
the fender, and thrown himself back in an easy chair, when the 
entrance of Mr. Weller, with his carpet bag, aroused him from 
bis tranquil meditations. 

“ Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Sir,” said Mr. Weller. 

“ I have just been thinking, Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick , “ that 
having left a good many things at Mrs. Bardell’s, in Goswell- 
street , I ought to arrange for taking them away, before I leave 
town again.” 

“ Wery good , sir,” replied Mr. Weller. 

“ I could send them to Mr. Tupman's for the present , Sam 
continued Mr. Pickwick; “ but , -before we take them away, it 
is necessary that they should be looked up , and put together. 
I wish you would step up to Goswell-street , Sam , and arrange 
about it.” 

“ At once , sir?” inquired Mr. Weller. - f . 

“ At once ,” replied Mr. Pickwick. “ And stay, Sam ,” added 
Mr. Pickwick, pulling out his purse. “ There is some rent to pay. 
The quarter is not due till Christmas , but you may pay it , and 
have done with it. A month’s notice terminates my tenancy. Here 
it is, written out. Give it , and tell Mrs. Bardell she may put a bill 
up , as soon as she likes.” 

“ Wery good , sir,” replied Mr. Weller ; “ anythin’ more , 
sir?” 

“ Nothing more, Sam.” 

Mr. Weller stepped slowly to the door, as if he expected some- 
thing further; slowly opened it, slowly Stepped out, and had 
slowly closed it within a couple of inches , when Mr. Pickwick 
called out— 

“ Sam.” 

“ Yes , sir,” said Mr. Weller, stepping quickly back > and 
closing the door behind him. 

“ I have no objection , Sam , to your endeavouring to ascer- 
tain how Mrs. Bardell herself seems disposed towards me , and 
whether it is reaUy probable that this vile and groundless action 
is to be carried to extremity. I say I do not object to your doing 
this , if you wish it , Sam said Mr. Pickwick. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



316 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

Sam gave a short nod of intelligence, and left the room. Mr. 
Pickwick drew the silk kandkerchief once more Over his head , 
and composed himself for a nap ; Mr. Weller promptly walked 
forth , to execute his commission. 

It was nearly nine o’clock when he reached Goswell-street. A 
couple of candles were burning in the little front parlour, and a 
•couple of caps were reflected on the window-blind. Mrs. Bardell 
had got company. 

Mr. Weller knocked at the door, and after a pretty long in- 
terval — occupied by the parly without in whistling a tune , and 
by the party within in persuading a refractory flat candle to 
allow itself to be lighted— a pair of small boots pattered over 
the floor-cloth , and Master Bardell presented himself. 

“ Veil , young townskip ,” said Sam , “ how’s mother? ” 

“ She’s pretty well ,” replied Master Bardell , “ so am I.” 

(ft 1“ Veil , that’s a mercy,” said Sam ; “ tell her I want to speak 
' to her, my h infa nt fernomenon.” 

Master Bardeli , thus adjured , placed the refractory flat candle 
on the bottom stair, and vanished into the front parlour with 
his message. 

The two caps reflected on the window-blind , were the re- 
spective.haad-dresses of a couple of Mrs. Bardell’s most particular 
acquaintance, who had just stepped in, to have a quiet cup of 
tea , and a little warm supper of a couple of sets of pett itoes and 
some toasjted,ejtieese, The cheese was simmering and browning 
away, most delightfully, in a little Dutch oven before the fire, 
and the pettitoes were getting on deliciously in a little tin saucepan 
on the l\ob;~ahd Mrs. Bardell and her two friends were getting 
on very well, also, in a little quiet conversation about and con- 
cerning; all their particular friends and acquaintance , when Master 
Bardell came back from answering the door, and delivered the 
message entrusted to him by Mr. Samuel Weller. 

“ Mr. Pickwick’s servant ! ” said Mrs. Bardell , turning pale. 

“ Bless my soul ! ” said Mrs. Cluppins. f "j 

) “Well, I raly would not ha’ believed it , unless I liad; ha’ 

^ happened .tQjjhft’ beeqjftepe!” §aid Mrs. Sanders. rr ^ 

Mrs. Cluppins was a , little brisk , busy-looking woman ; and 
Mrs. Sanders' was a big* fat,. heavy-faced personage ; and the 
two were the company. 

Mrs. Bardell felt it proper to be agitated; and as none of the 
three exactly knew whether, under existing circumstances , any 
communication, otherwise than through Dodson and Fogg , 
ought to be held with Mr. Pickwick’s servant , they were aH 
rather taken by surprise. In this state of indecision , obviously 
the first thing to be done , was to thump the boy for finding, 

. 'IP? s. t-Jok. 

digitized by Google 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 317 

Mr. Weller at the door. So his mother thumped him , and he 
cried melodiously. 

“Hold your noise — do — you naughty ereetur,” said Mrs. 
Bardell. ■ ' • 

“ Yes ; don’t worrit your poor mother,” said Mrs. Sanders. 

“She’s quite enough to worrit her, as it is , i without youj 
Tommy,” said Mrs. Cluppins , with sympathising resignation. 

“ Ah ! worse luck , poor lamb !” said Mrs. Sanders. ••• 

At all which moral reflections , Master Bardell howled the 
louder. 

“ Now, what shall I do ? ” said Mrs. Bardell to Mrs. Cluppins. 

“ /think you ought to see him /’replied Mrs. Cluppins. “But 
on no account without a witness.” 

“ / think two witnesses would be more lawful,” said Mrs. 
Sanders, who, like the other friend, was bursting with curiosity. 

“ Perhaps , he’d better come in here,” said Mrs. Bardell. 

“ To be sure ,” replied Mrs. Cluppins , eagerly catching at the 
idea — “ Walk in,, young man; and shut the street-door first , 
please.” 

Mr. Weller immediately took the hint ; and presenting himself 
in the parlour, explained his business to Mrs. Bardell thus— 

“ Wery sorry to 'casion any personal inconwenience, ma’am, 
as the housebreaker said to the old lady vhen he put her on the 
fire ; but as me and my governor’s only just come to town, and 
is just going away agin , it can’t be helped , you see.” 

“ Of course , the young man can’ t hglp the faults of his mas- 
ter,” said Mrs. Cluppins , much struck by Mr. Weller’s appea- 
rance and conversation. 

“ Certainly not,” chimed in Mrs. Sanders , who from certain 
wistful glances at the little tin saucepan, seemed to'be engaged 
in a mental calculation of the probable extent of the pettitoes, in 
the event of Sam’s being asked to stop supper. 

“ So all I’ve come about, is just this here said Sam , disre- 
garding the interruption — “ First , to give my governor’s notice 
— there it is. Secondly, to pay the rent — here it is. Thirdly, to 
say as alt his things is to be put together, and given to anybody 
as we sends for ’em. Fourthly, that you may let the place as soon 
as you like — and that’s all.” 

“Whatever has happened,” said Mrs. Bardell, “I always 
have said and always will say, that in every respect but one, Mr. 
Pickwick has always behaved himself like a perfect gentleman. 
His money always was as good as the bank' — always.” 

As Mrs. Bardell said this, she applied her handkerchief to her 
eyes , and went out of-the-room to get the receipt ■ 

Sam well knew that he had only to remain quiet, and the 
women were sure to talk; so he looked alternately at the tin sauce- 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



318 POSTHUMOUS PAPfiffS 

pan 1 ; <tM toasted cheese , the wall , and the ceiling j in profound 

silence. •" • 

‘'•Pcfor dear ! ” said Mrs. Cluppins. 

MAh, poor thing!” replied Mrs. Sanders. 

Sam said nothing. He saw they were coming to the Subject. 

* 'hi 4*ty(Ca«riot- contain myself,” said Mrs. Cluppioe, “when 
I think of such perjury. I don’t wish to say anything to make 
yon UDC&mfof taMe pyotingfoxan i ibhtr your imaster’s anoidbrute , 
rl. and I wish I had him hereto tell him so.” - : - 

“ I wish you had ,” said Sam. 

f J ^ “ To see how dreadful she takes on , going moping about , and 

taking no pleasure in nothing , except when her friends comes 
a in, out of charity, to sit with her, and make her comfortable 
•<) . resumed Mrs. Cluppins, glancing at the. tin saucepan and the 
"■ Dutch oven , “ it’s shocking.’' 

“ Barbareous ,” said Mrs. Sanders. 

“ And your master, young man , a gentleman with money, as 
could never feel the expense of a wife , no more than nothing ,” 
continued Mrs. Cluppins, with great volubility ; “ why there ain’t 
the faintest shade of an excuse for his behaviour. Why don’t he 
marry her? ” 

“ Ah ,” said Sam , “ to be sure. ; that’s the question.” 

“ Question, indeed,” retorted Mrs. Cluppins ; “ she’d question 
, him , if she'd my spiriL Hows’ever, there is law for us women , 
' rt *f. mis’rable creeturs as they’d make us, if they could •, and that your 
master will find out, young man, to his cost, afore he’s six months 
older.” 

At this consolatory reflection , Mrs. Cluppins bridled up, and 
smiled at Mrs. Sanders, who smiled back again. 

“ The action’s going on , and no mistake thought Sam , as 
Mrs. Bardell re-entered with the receipt. 

“ Here’s the receipt, Mr. Weller,” said Mrs. Bardell, “ and 
here’s the change, and I hope you’ll take a little drop of some- 
thing to keep the cokl out , if it’s only for old acquaintance’ sake, 
Mr. Weller.” 

Sam sawthe advantage he should gain , and at once acquiesced, 
whereupon Mrs. Bardell produeed from a small closet a black 
bottle and a wine glass, and so great was her abstraction in her 
deep mental affliction, that, after filling Mr. Weller’s glass, she 
brought out three more wine glasses, and filled them too. 

“ Lauk, Mrs. Bardell,” said Mrs. Cluppins, “see what you’ve 
been and done.” 

“ Well, that is a good one ! ” ejaculated Mrs. Sanders. 

“ Ah , my poor head ! ” said Mrs. Bardell , with a faint smile. 

Sam understood all this, of course , so he said at once, that 
he never could drink before supper, unless a lady drank with 


Digitized by UooQle 



OP THE PICKWICK CLUB. 319 

him. A great deal of laughing ensued , and then Mrs. Sanders 
volunteered to humour him , so she took a slight sip out of her 
glass. Then Sam said it must go al round, so they all. took a 
slight sip. Then little Mnc Chipping proposed as a taapt ,“Suc- 
cess.to Baideii against Pickwick;” -and then the; ladies 'emptied 
theirgiasam in honour aif the seathwent:, and goti very talkative 
directly^ i, ■. m ' ' . - ' > , > . c ! *"■$?' *?*n» * <> 

“ I silppoee you’ve heard what’s going forward, ^Mr.Weller?” 
said Mrs. BardeQ. 

“ I’ve heerd somethin’ on it ,” replied Sam. 

“ It’s a terrible thing to be dragged before the public, in that 
way, Mr. Weller,” said Mrs. Bardell 5 “ but I see now, that it’s 
the only thing I ought to do , and my lawyers , Mr. Dodson and 
Fogg, tell me that, witti the evidence as we shall call, we 
must succeed. I don’t know what I should do , Mr. Weller, if I 
didn’t.” 

The mere idea of Mrs. BardetFs failing in her action , affected 
Mrs. Sanders so deeply, that she was under the necessity of re- 
filling and re-emptying her glass immediately; feeling, as she 
said afterwards , that if she hadn’t had the presence of mind to 
have dqne so , she must have dropped. 

*“ Ven is it expected to come on? ” inquired Sam. 

“ Either in February or March ,” replied Mrs. Bardell. 

“ What a number of witnesses there’ll be, won’t there?” said 
Mrs. Cluppins. 

“ Ah , won’t there?” replied Mrs. Sanders. 

“ And won’t Mr. Dodson and Fogg be wild if the plaintiff 
shouldn’t get it?” added Mrs. Cluppins , “when they do it all 
on speculation ! ” 

“ An ! won’t they ! ” said Mrs. Sanders. 

‘ ‘ But the plaintiff must get it ,” resumed Mrs. Cluppins. 

“ I hope so ,” said Mrs. Bardell. 

“Oh, there can’t be any doubt about it,” rejoined Mrs. San- 
ders. 

“ Veil ,” said Sam , rising and setting down bis glass. “ All I 
can say is , that I vish you may get it.” . 

“ Tfaaak’ee , Mr. Weller,” said Mrs. Bardell , fervently. 

“ And of them Dodson and Fogg, as does these sort o’ things 
on spec ,” continued Mr. Weller, “as veil as ior the other land 
and gen’rous people o’ the same profession, assets-people by the 
ears free gratis for nothin’, and sets their clerics to work to find 
out little disputes among their neighbours and acquaintance as 
vants settlin’ by means o’ law-suks — all I can say o’ them is, that 
I vish they had the revard I’d give ’em.” 

“ Ah , I wish they had the reward that every kind and gene- 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



320 posthumous papers 

rous.heart would ;beti»nlia«rii to bestow upontban* > said the 
gratified Mrs. BardelJ. r . i . . . ; *jit. -■ •• i- • 

“Amen to that,” replied &am , “and a fit and kappy livin’ 
they’d«ek(Ogt>ofjtt. Vish^you goodnight, Jadks..”: . > 

To the great relief-of MrsrSanders , Sam'wfes aUowed to de- 
part, without any reference , orr-the. part of the hostess to the 
pettitoes <aud toasted cheese , to which the ladies , with subh ju- 
venile assistance as Master Bardell could afford , soon afterwards 
rendered the amplest justice — indeedthey wholly vanished , be- 
fore their strenuous exertions- > . • r. i . - 
Mr. Weller wended, his way hack to the George and Vulture, 
and faithfully recounted to his master, sueh indications of the 
sharp practice of Dodson and Fogg, as he had contrived to pick 
up in his visit to Mrs. Bardell’s. An interview with Mr. Perker, 
next day, more than confirmed Mr. Weller’s statement; and 
Mr. Pickwick was fain to prepare for his Christmas visit to 
Dingley Dell, with the pleasant anticipation that some two or 
three months afterwards , an action brought against him for. 
damages sustained by reason of a breach of promise of marriage, 
would be publicly tried in the Court of Common Pleas ; the 
plaintiff having all the advantages derivable not only from the 
force of circumstances , but from the sharp practice of Dodson 
and Fogg to boot. 


CHAPTER XXVIII. 

* 

SAMUEL WELLE* MAKES A PILGRIMAGE TO DORKING , AND BEHOLDS HIS MOTHER- 

IN-LAW. 


There still remaining an interval of two days, before the time 
agreed upon , for the departure of the Pickwickians to Dingley 
Dell , Mr. Weller sat himself down in a backroom at the George 
and Vulture , after eating an early dinner, to muse on the best 
way of disposing of his time. It was a remarkably fine day ; and 
he had not turned the matter over in his mind ten minutes , 
when he was suddenly struck filial and affectionate; and it 
occurred to him so strongly that he ought to go down to see his 
father, and pay his duty to his mother-in-law, that he was lost 
in astonishment at his own remissness in never thinking of this 
moral obligation before. Anxious to atone for his past neglect 
without another hour’s delay, he straightway walked up stairs to 
Mr. Pickwick , and requested leave of absence for this laudable 
purpose. 

“Certainly, Sam, certainly,” said Mr. Pickwick, his eyes 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWICK CIAIB. 321 

glistening with delight at this manifestation of good feeling, on 
the part of his attendant 5 “ certainly, Sam.” 

Mr. Weller made a grateful bow. 

“ I am very glad to see that you have so high a sense of your 
duties as a son, Sam,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ I always had , sir,” replied Mr. Weller. 

“That’s a very gratifying reflection, Sam, ’’said Mr. Pickwick, 
approvingly. 

“ Wery,sir,” replied Mr. Weller 5 “ if ever I vanted anythin’ 
o’ my father, I always asked for it in a wery ’speclful and obligin’ 
manner. If he didn’t give it me , I took it , for fear I should be 
led to do anythin’ wrong , through not havin’ it. I saved him a 
world 0’ trouble this vay, sir.” • 

“ That’s not precisely wbatl meant, Sam said Mr. Pickwick, 
shaking his head, with a slight smile. 

“ All good feel in’, sir — the wery best intentions , as the 
gen’l’m’n said ven he run away from his wife , ’cos she seemed 
unhappy with him ,” replied Mr. Weller. 

“ You may go , Sam ,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Thank’ee, sir,” replied Mr. Weller ; and having made his 
best bow, and put on his best clothes , Sam planted himself on 
the top of the Arundel coach, and journeyed on to Dorking. 

The Marquis of Granby, in Mrs. Weller’s time , was quite a 
model of a road-side public-house of the better class— just large 
enough to be convenient, and small enough to be snug. On the 
opposite side of the road was a large sign-board on a high post, 
representing the head and shoulders of a gentleman with an 
apoplectic countenance, in a red coat , with deep blue facings , 
and a touch of the same over his three cornered hat, for a sky. 
Over that again, were a pair of flags, and beneath the last button 
of his coat were a couple of cannon 5 and the whole formed an 
expressive and undoubted likeness of the Marquis of Granby of 
glgrious memory. The bar window displayed a choice collection 
of geranium plants, and a well-dusted row of spirit phials. The 
open shutters bore a variety of golden inscriptions, eulogistic of 
good beds and neat wines •, and the choice group of countrymen 
and hostlers lounging about the stable-door and horse-trough, 
afforded presumptive proof of the excellent quality of the ale and 
spirits which were sold within. Sam Weller paused, when he 
dismounted from* the coach, to note all these little indications of 
a thriving business ,' with the eye of an experienced traveller \ 
and having done so , stepped in at. once , highly satisfied with 
everything he had observed. 

“ Now, then,” said a shrill female voice, the instant Sam 
thrust in his head at the door, “ what do you want, young man ? ” 
Sam looked round in the direction whence the voice proceeded. 

1. 21 


Digitized by 


Google 


re -a r r 


322 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

It came from a rather stout lady of comfortable appearance, who 
was seated beside the fire-place in the bar, blowing the fire to 
make the kettle boil for tea. She was not alone, for on the other 
side of the fire-place , sitting bolt upright in a high-backed chair, 
was a man in thread-bare black clothes, with a back almost as long 
and stiff as that of the chair itself, who caught Sam's most par- 
ticular and especial attention at once.' 

He was a prim-faced, red-nosed man, with a long thin 
countenance and a semi-rattlesnake sort of eye— rather sharp , 
but decidedly bad. He wore very short trousers , and black- 
cotton stockings , which , like the rest of his apparel , were par- 
ticularly rusty. His looks were starched , but his white necker- 
chief was not •, and itsTong limp ends straggled over his closely 
buttoned waistcoat in a very uncouth and unpicturesque fashion. 
A pair of old, worn, beaver gloves, a broad-brimmed hat, and a 
faded green umbrella, with plenty of whalebone sticking through 
the bottom , as if to counterbalance the want of a handle at the 
top, lay on a chair beside him;, and being disposed in a very tidy 
and careful manner, seemed to imply that the red-nosed man , 
whoever he was , had no intention of going away in a hurry. 

To do the red-nosed man justice, he would have been very far 
from wise if he had entertained any such intention, for, to judge 
from all appearances , he must have been possessed of a most 
desirable circle of acquaintance, if he could have reasonably 
expected to be more comfortable anywhere else. The fire was 
blazing brightly, under the influence of the bellows, and the 
kettle was singing gaily, under the influence of both. A s maH 
tray of tea-things was arranged on the table ; a plate of hot but- 
tered toast was gently simmering before the fire; and the red- 
nosed man himself was busily engaged in converting a large 
slice of bread into the same agreeable edible , through the instru- 
mentality of a long brass toasting-fork. Beside him , stood a 
glass of reeking hot pine-apple rum and water, with a slice of 
lemon in it : and every time the red-nosed man stopped to bring 
the round of bread to his eye , with the view of ascertaining how 
it got on , he imbibed a drop or two of the hot pine-apple rum 
and water, and smiled upon the rather stout lady, as she blew 
the fire. 

Sam was so lost in the contemplation of this comfortable scene, 
that he suffered the first inquiry of the rather stout lady to pass 
wholly unheeded. It was not until it had been twice repeated, 
each time in a shriller tone, that he became conscious of the im- 
propriety of his behaviour. 

“ Governor in? inquired Sam , in reply to the question. 

“ No , he isn’t,” replied Mrs. Weller, for the rather stout lady 
was no other; than the quondam relict and sole executrix of the 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF THE PICKWlCk CLUB. 3&3 

dead-and*gone Mr. Clarke “ No, he isn’t, arid I don’t eipect 
him, either.” 

“ I suppose he’s a drivin’ up to-day?” said Sam. 

“He may be, or he may not,” replied Mrs. Weller, buttering 
the round of toast which the red-nosed man had just finished ; 
“ I don’t know, and , what’s more, I don’t care. Ask a blessin’, 
Mr. Stiggins.” 

The red-nosed man did as he was desired, and instantly com- 
menced on the toast with fierce voracity: ' 

The appearance of the red-nosed man had induced Sam , at 
first sight , to more than half suspect that he was the deputy 
shepherd, of whom his estimable parent had spoken. The mo- 
ment he saw him eat , all doubt on the subject was removed, and 
he perceived at once that if he proposed to take up his temporary 
quarters where he was , he must make his footing good without 
delay. He therefore commenced proceedings by putting his arm 
over the half-door of the bar, coolly unbolting it, and leisurely 
walking in. 

“ Mother-in-law,” said Sam , “ how are you? ” 

“ Why, I do believe he is a Weller,” said Mrs. W., raising 
her eyes to Sam’s face , with no very gratified expression of 
countenance. 

“ I rayther think he is,” said the imperturbable Sam; “and 
I hope this here jeverend gen ’jm’n ’ll excuse me saying that I 
wish j jvas the WeU er as owns y ou , mother-in-law.” 

This was a double-barrelled compliment : it implied that Mrs. 
Weller was a most agreeable female , and also that Mr. Stiggins 
had a clerical appearance. It made a visible impression at once ; 
and Sam followed up his advantage by kissing his mother-in-law. 

“ Get along with you ,” said Mrs. Weller, pushing him away. 

“ For shame, young man ,” said the gentleman with the red 
nose. 

“No offence, sir, no offence,” replied Sam; “you’re wery 
right, though; it ain’t the right sort ’o thing, ven mothers-in- 
law is young and good looking , is it , sir ? ” 

“ It’s all vanity,” said Mr. Stiggins. 

“ Ah , so it is ,” said Mrs. Weller, setting her cap to rights. 

Sam thought it was , too , but he held his peace. 

The deputy shepherd seemed by no means best pleased with 
Sam’s arrival ; and when the first effervescence of the compli- 
ment had subsided, even Mrs. Weller looked as if she could 
have spared him without the smallest inconvenience. However, 
there he was; end as he couldn’t be decently turned out, they 
all three sat down to tea. 

“ And how’s father?” said Sam. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


3** 

'M i&rtrerfup 

m ^^'y^tKy^ftec^eW^minflii t6%atedmb: 

''MF.'^td/pMd: 1 ';’ 1 : 11 "‘ ^“ l ‘ ,: \ ia ^ ^K-p‘^5 

thSt *ert ^hibi'fi? ,< 'hrtbfirea Sam. 
^ ?v . v )8 ‘ Hfe’idftbckea at the ; way your father gtteis oW, la— 1 replied 


" ’‘^AndHviln tdp g66«f Reason,” addfec 


I I ’qddedMi's. 

’ Mfi ! 'Kti(£giiisr t6uk ' tie’ll flesh 1 ^ifece bf toast, and groaned 
heavily. v ... , ., , ,'\ ' ’" ' 

“ He is a dreadful reifrpbatfe," Said Mi's. W$ttpiv'‘ " h . 

J,w ‘jS. mkridf wrath!” exclaimed Mr. Stiggins/ Audhe fc 


and 

large semi-Qircular bite out of the toast , and groaried again. ' 

1 Samfelf Vdff strongly disposed 16 gfte’ the'lbvferertd otC Stig- 
gitiS Sbhiething to groan for, but life rfe^reteed hiS incliiiatrdfiy imd 
mfelely asked , “What’S thedM’triiup Id/ndW?”’ 1 ‘ ' :i: 4 ' 


ook a 

- i *r 



slt hfelfey ffef hours together, and it has fiof'thfede&it'feffeet fi^fen 

t!i m » • ' •{KHih « *•! -y/iXs VlH ii ’<# >>' 

\ “ tt y that is ddtf,*' saSdfSkftSafY Wife a 

iliifefeBfecS’tlppn'me’, if I whs-iri hTS plSfee ) i’TtMtiWkhdfc**' r il! ' 

01 ‘^e’feci^, my’youngftend^^saidMlI'S^^Sble^^, 
^hfe'ffik a‘tfY>bdelTate,h6sbm. / Op, iWf y6bii£ else 

bOTltnijli^k^^edthfeVfeadifig ’OTsKftfcfetf'frf'dui i^re&ISistetti', 
and withstood they- exhortations to subscribe toqurpoble^toicfety 
/ for Pfo^raihg tlife 1 infant negroes in the West f Indie& vfflh 1 flannel 
/ waistcoats and moral pocket-handkerchiefs'?" ' 

“What’s a moral pocket-ankercher?” said Sam 5 “ I lifef efsce 
one o’ them articles 0’ furniter.” . t 

“Those which combine amusement with ihstrlifetidhy Iny 
younjg friend /'replied Mr. Stiggins, “blending select titles yvith 
wood-cuts.” < *r 

“ Oh , I know,” said Sajp , “ them as hari^S up iil '{Kfe finen- 
f drapers’ shops , with beggars’ petitions 'and ail that “fere upon 
•fern?”.. .... . , " !l \ 

Iti&l StlggiihS began a third lou^d 6f foist 1 , fehdhoflded’ahsent. 
f “Andhe 'wouldn’t bfe persuaidfed by the ladies, wdtildhi’t'hb!*’ 
widSaia, . - ■/ /•, • " ,w 

“ S'at and* Smpked hiS pipe j .atidsSiti ihe irifaltd irfegrbeS ‘ifefe 
— ’vtfiat did tie say thife infant dfegtbfekytitie? 1 ” Sind Mrs/ Wfelfol. 
“Little humbugs,,” replied Mr. Stiggins, deepfy'htfoctefl/" 1 '' 

' * * Sara ’tfre ihfanit nie&ioeS w^reHttlb friuhbuigi ,” 

Weller. And they both groaned at the atroeiohS' CbridUfet bf'tfie 
elder Mr. Samuel. 


Digitized by v^ooQle 



W>- 999 


.ipig^ fotve 

een qpj^ff, only, Urn , toast e«t , the tea ^having gqt 

T weak, and Sam holding out no inqi£atjpns,pf_mepniflg to 


l>een 
•very 

Stjggins awddeply Jr^ojlwt^qitjjai', 1 ^'^;-., 

•ng; appointment with the ■ shepherd;,,^ j 1,90ft > j 
cordingiy. 1 y.- ~ 

The tea-things had been scafqely put aw^and me.pparlh 
swept up , when the JUmdon, coach deposited Mr, $fep$; senior 
at the door, his legs deposited him in the bar , and h js ey 1 
him his son. 


“ What, SanjmyJ ” ekplaimed the fatbef , , , 
“What, old Nobs!” ejaculated the sop. And they shook 
hands heartily, 

“ W^ry glad to see.you , Sammy,” said the elder Mr. Weller, 
“ though bow you’ve managed to get over your mother-in-law^ 
is a mystery to me. I only wish you’d write me out the receipt;, 

that’s all,” ./ . / 

“ Hush!” said Sam, “ she’s at home, old feller. 


“ Shfi ain’t vjthin heacin’,” replied, Mr. Weller ; “ she always 


goes and blows up, down Stairs, for a couple of hours artei;,tep.; 
so we’ll just give ourselves a damp , Sammy.” . 

, Saying this „ Mr, Weller mixed two glasses of spirits and 
water, and produced a couple of pipes ; and the father and $pp 
sitting down opposite each other, Sam on one side the fire, in 
the high-hacked chair, and Mr. Weller senior on the other, in 
an easy ditto, they proceeded to enjoy themselves with all, due 
gravity, ...... .7, 

“ Anybody been here, Sammy?” asked Mr. Weller senior, 
drily, after a long silence. 1 

Sam nodded an expressive assent. 

“ Red-nosed chap?” inquired Mr. Weller. 

Sam nodded again. 

“ Amiable man that ’ere , Sammy,” said Mr. Weller, smoking 
violently. 

“ Seeins so observed Sam. 

“ Good hand, at accounts said Mr. Weller. 

“Is he?” said Sam. " 

Rorrews.eigliteenpenfie °h MoBwlay, and comes on. Tuesday 
for a shiUin’ to make it up half a crown j caljA^in hP-V^nsday 
for another half crown to niake It five shillin’s , and gcjqs r qp , 
doubling, tiU he , gets, it np to a five pund note ip. np/jtipif ^like 
them -sums in the ’ritlinietic hook; ’bout the nails in 'the hojpe’s 

shoes, $anunj ... - , u ...'/‘m'V 

Sam intimated byanod that he recollec ted the pfobjejn al- 
luded to by his parent. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


336 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

“So youvouldn’t subscribe to the flannel veskits?” said Sam * 
after another interval of smoking. 

“Cert’nly not,” replied Mr. Weller •, “what’s the good o’ 
flannel veskits to the young niggers abroad? But l’B tell you 
what H is, Sammy,” said Mr. Weller, lowering his voice, and 
bending across the fire-place, “ I’d come down wery handsome 
towards straight veskits for some people at home.” 

As Mr. Weller said this , he slowly recovered his former po- 
sition , and winked at his first-born , in a profound manner. 

“ It cert’nly seems a queer start to send out pocket-ankerchers 
to people as don’t know the use on ’em,” observed Sam. 

“ They’re alvays a doin’ some gammon of that sort, Sammy,” 
replied his father. “ T’other Sunday I vas walkin' up the road, 
ven who should I see a standin’ at a chapel-door, 'With a blue 
soup-plate in her hand , but your mother-in-law* I werily believe 
there was change for a couple o’ suv’rins in it, then, Sammy, 
all in ha’pence ; and as the people come out , they rattled the 
pennies in, till you’d ha’ thought that no mortal plate as ever 
was baked , could ha’ stood the wear and tear; 1 What d’ye think 
it was all for ? ” 

“ For another tea-drinkin’, perhaps, M said Sam. 

“ Not a bit on it,” replied the father ; “ for the shepherd’s 
water-rate, Sammy.” ’ 

“ The shepherd’s water-rate ! ” said Sam. 

“ Ay,” replied Mr. Weller, “ there was three quarters owin’, 
and theshepherd hadn’t paid a farden , not he— perhaps it might 
be on account that the water warn’t o’ much use to him , for it’s 
wery little 0’ that tap he drinks, Sammy, wery; he knows a trick 
worth a good half dozen of that, he does. Hows’ever, it warn’t 
paid , and so they cuts the water off. Down goes the shepherd 
to chapel , gives out as he’s a persecuted saint, and says he hopes 
the heart of the turncock as cut the water off, ’ll be softened, 
and turned in the right vay, but he rayther thinks he’s booked 
for somethin’ uncomfortable. Upon this, the women calls a 
meetin’, sings a hymn , wotes your mother-in-law into the chair, 
wolunteers a col-lection next Sunday, and hands it all over to 
the shepherd. And if he ain’t got enough out on ’em , Sammy, 
to make him free ofthe water company for life,” said Mr. Weller, 
in conclusion, “I'm one Dutchman, and you’re another, and 
that’s all about it;” 

Mr. Welter smoked for some minutes in silence , and then 
resumed — < , 

“ The worst 0’ these here shepherds is, my boy, that they 
reg’larly turns the heads of all the young ladies, about here. 
Lord bless their little hearts, they thinks it’s all right , and don’t 


Digitized by 


Google 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 327 

know no better; but they’re the wictims o’ gammon ,. Samivel, 
they’re the wictims o’ gammon.” .. . . 

“ I s’pose they are said Sam. 

“ Nothin’ else,” said Mr. Weller, shaking his head gravely ; 

“ and wot aggrawates me, Samivel , is to see ’em a wastin’ all 
their time and labour in making clothes for copper-coloured 
people as don’t want ’em , and taking no notice of the flesh- 
coloured Christians as do. If I’d my vay, Samivel , I’d just stick 
6ome o’ these here lazy shepherds behind a heavy wheelbarrow, 
and run ’em up and down a fourteen-inch-wide plank all day. 
That ’ud shake the nonsense out of ’em, if anythin’ vould.” 

Mr. Weller having delivered this gentle recipe with strong 
emphasis , eked out by a variety of nods and contortions of the 
eye, emptied his glass at a draught, and knocked the ashes out 
of bis pipe, with native dignity. 

He was engaged in this operation , when a shrill voice was 
heard in the passage. 

“ Here’s your dear relation, Sammy,” said Mr. Weller 5 and 
Mrs. W. hurried into the room. 

“ Oh , you’ve come back , have you? ” said Mrs. Weller. 

“ Yes , my dear,” replied Mr. Weller, filling a fresh pipe. 

“ Has Mr. Stiggins been back ? ” said Mrs. Weller. 

“ No, my dear, he hasn’t,” replied Mr. Weller, lighting the 
pipe by the ingenious process of holding to the bowl thereof, 
between the. tongs, a red-hot coal from the adjacent lire ; “ and 
what’s more , my dear, I shall manage to surwive it, if he don’t 
come back at all.” 

“ Ugh, you wretch ,” said Mrs. Weller. 

“ Thank’ee , my love ,” said Mr. Weller. 

“ Come, come, father,” said Sam, “ none 0’ these little 
lovin’s afore strangers. Here’s the reverend gen’lm’n a cornin’ 
in now.” 

At this announcement , Mrs. Weller hastily wiped off the 
tears which she had just begun to force on; and Mr. W. drew 
his chair sullenly into the chimney corner. 

Mr. Stiggins was easily prevailed on , to take another glass of 
the hot pine-apple rum and water, and a second , and a third , 
and then to refresh himself with a slight supper, previous to 
beginning again. He sat on the same side as Mr. Weller senior ; 
and every time he could contrive to do so , unseen by his wife , 
that gentleman indicated to his son the hidden emotions of his 
bosom , by shaking his fist over the deputy shepherd’s head , a 
process which afforded his son the most unmingled delight and. 
satisfaction, the more especially as Mr. Stiggins went on quietly 
drinking the hot pineapple rum and water, wholly unconscious, 
of what was going forward. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


3fflP POSTHUMOUS ' PAPERS * 

i(WheJnMJor*padt tof theiOMTversaticB' wbl icoofihedito ‘Mrs 
Weller and the reverend Mr. Stiggins ; and the topieg principally 
dednabtedmn qw*r8<thb virtubs oftbeishephCtd y Itfee-wOrthitifess 
ofhislQMlbpqHiddhe' high) crimes add misdemeanours ' of every- 
bofilJ’ikesideH+Hdisseitttttions Which* th6 elder Mr- Weller odea* 
sionally interrupted by half-suppressed ! referenceS trta gentleman 
dfrtbetBainsieS Watker) and other Running commentaries of the 
draft kinttiRdili 'ni <*H .a. Uu<* * v» n • t- iiwj.it «r<-t> 
JU tedglhiMnStiggins-v with 1 several most indubitable: syrop*- 
tbmsof having 'q cote! as i m aoh pine-appld rumi and . wider about 
him, aB he could coft]ft»t«bly accommodate, tobkhishatand hid 
leavtev!luid S»teiwas , iiihmediatel^ dftemardsj shewn to bed by 
his father. The respectable old gentleman* wrung Itis hand'fer- 
vently, and seemed disposed to address some observations to his 
son, but on Mrs. Weller advancing towards him, he ap- 
peared to relinquish his intention, and abruptly bade him 
good night. • / ;j p '<> !C‘ 

Sam was up betimes next day, and having partaken of a hasty 
breakfast, prepared to return to London. He had scarcely set 
foot without the house , when his father stood before him. 

“Coin’, Sammy? ’’inquired Mr.* Weller. - -• 

*“ Off at once ,” replied Sam. <■■*•*'« -i»v 

“ I vish you could muffle that ’ere Stiggins , and take him with 
yctt/’iSsaid-Mny Weller. -t-P?-- *»i ■>.* -Jfnuf > 

1 . if ‘ l am .ashamed o’ you y old two-foivhH-heels /’• said Sam , re- 
proachfully y“wbat do you let him shew his red- nose in the 
Mark&o’ Granby at -aU, for?” . ; ' . . ■ i <■ 

vMr. Weller ithei elder fixed on his son an earnest look and 
replied — “ ’Cause I’m a married man , Samivel y ’caufte I’m a 
married man. Ven you’re a married man , Samivel, you’R un- 
derstand a good many things as you don’t understand now, but 
vether it’s worth while goin’ through so much, to learn so little, 
as the charity-boy said ven he got to the end of the alphabet , is 
a matter o’ taste. / rayther think it isn’t.” •* 

“Well,” said Sam, “goodbye.” 
f 4 Tar, tar, Sammy,” replied bSs father-. 

' “ I’ve only got to say thte here ,” said Sam , stopping short y 
“ that if I was theiproperiator o’theMarkis o’ Granby, and that 
’ere Stiggins came and made toast in my bar, I’d 
>■ “ What? f’ interposed Mr.: Weller, with great anxiety < 
“ What?”» - , w .... , ... ... , . .'! < ■ 

*“ Pisonhis ram- and /water, ’’ said Sara. 

“ No! ” said;Mr. Weller, shaking his son eagerly by the handy 
would you! raly si Sammy— would- you, 'though?” 11 <i 

“>I would/’ said Sam.. “ I wouldn’tbe too. hard upon him, at 
first : I’d just drop him in the- water-butt j and- put the lid on ; 


Digitized by v^ooQle 



OF TH* PIGKWJOS 6UIB. 889 

and thentiC il found (be was rinsensiMe •<(<!> kindness ;‘Rd"tryi1he 

otherpertyasioni’’"'- ns -rri!:' - .1/ 

The 'elder ><Mr. Weller-bestowed a look of deep unspeakable 
admiration our his son and , having onoferoopef grasped his hadd, 
watted slowly a Way, revolving in his mind the- numerouareftec- 

tions to which' his adrice had given rise. .-i -'i«u • •• 

■ Sana looked after himy tili be turned a corner" of the road,' And 
then set forward on his walk to London. He meditated '»t first 
on the p«dbalAe> conseqaances' ef his-own: advice , and the' like- 
lihood and unlikelihood of his> father’s adopting it. He dismissed 
the subject 1 from his send , however, with the consolatory re- 
flection tbait time akme. would shew; and this is just the reflection 
we would impress upon the reader. > ' .... r. . 

> -** I’.f.i; 1 : • ' ' ' - ‘ ! -^ 1 

' - • ■ • TVf/-'; V }, 'M.i. . > Cf, ■ '» t 

■ : i i i f v ‘i ; \y\i< him ,4$ 4 • 1 1 ■ 

CHAPTER XXIX. 

. * • if vf /!■>) f.-ir vrl U* ; , ■ '< . . . -• • • •’ 


A COOD-HCMGUftEi) ttiRfeVilA^ CHAPTER 1 , CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OF A WEDDING , 
AND AMti OTHfek 'si>OAT8 BEStbK, WHICH ALTHOUGH IN THEIR WAt EVEN AS 
GOOD CUSTOMS AS MARR1&G& 1T&LF, AB& NOT ‘QUITE SO RELIGIOUSLY KEPT U^ 


IN THESE DEGENERATE TIMES. 


As brisk as bees , if not altogether as light as fairies , did the , 
four Fiekwiekiansi assemble 6n the morning of the tWerntynsecond 
day of December, in the year of grace in which these their faith- , r J 
fully-recorded adventures, were undertaken and accomplished'.// ' 
Christmas was dose at hand , in all his bluff and hearty honesty; 
it was the season of hospitality, merriment, and open-heart-C 1 
ednass ; the old year was preparing , like an ancient philosopher, 
to’call his friends around him , and amidst the sound of feasting 
and revelry to pass gently and calmly away. Gay and merry was 
the time ; and right gay and merry were at least four of the nu- 
merous hearts that were gladdened by its coming. 

And numerous indeed are the hearts to which Christmas brings 
a brief season of happiness and enjoyment. How many families 
whose members ha ve been dispersed and scattered far and wide, 
in the restless straggles of life , are then re-united ; and meet once 
again in that happy state of companionship and mutual good- 
will , which is a source of such pube and unalloyed delight , and 
one so incompatible with the cares and sorrows of the WoHd, 
that the religious belief of the most civilised nations, and the 
rude traditions of the roughest : savages , alike nuAifeer it afnong 
the first joys of a future state of existence 1 ,' provided for the blest 
and happy ! How many old recollections ; and how many dor- 
mant sympathies, does Christmas time awaken ! 


\ 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


POgXHUMQUS PAPERS 

, V WP wrjte these words now,.ma»y miles distant from- (he spot 
at ( which,, year after year, we met on that day, a merry and 
jotfpus circle. Many of the hearts that throbbed so gaily then, 
have cea§ed to beat ; many of the looks that shone so brightly 
then ,, have cessed to glow; the hands we grasped, have grown 
cold; the eyes we sought, have hid their lustre in the grave.; 
apd ypt tbe old house, the room, the merry voices and smiling 
feces, the jest, the laugh, the most minute and trivial circum- 
stance connected with those happy meetings , crowd upon our 
mind at each recurrence of the season , as if the last assemblage 
had been but yesterday. Happy, happy Christmas, that can win 
ps back, to the delusions of our childish days, that can recal to 
ithe old man the pleasures of his youth , and transport the sailor 
/and the traveller, thousands of miles away, back to his own fire- 
} side and his quiet home ! 

■ But we are so taken up, and occupied , with the good qualities 
of Christmas, who, by the way, is quite a country gentleman 
of the old school, that we are keeping Mr. Pickwick and his 
friends waiting in the cold, on the oufeide of the Mu^gleton 
coach, which they have just attained, well wrapped up, in great 

« ats, shawls, and comforters. The portmanteaus and carpet- 
gs have been stowed away, and Mr. Weller and the guard are 
endeavouring to insinuate into the fore-boot a huge cod-fish 
several sizes too large for it, which is. snugly packed up, in a 
long brown basket, with a layer of straw over the top, and which 
has been left to the last , in order that he may repose in safety 
on the half-dozen barrels of real native oysters, all tbe property 
of Mr. Pickwick, which have been arranged in. regular order, 
at the bottom of the receptacle. Tbe interest displayed in 
Mr. Pickwick’s countenance is most intense, as Mr. Weller and 
the guard try to squeeze the cod-fish into the boot , first bead 
first, and then tail first , and then top upwards; and then bottom 
upwards, and then side-ways, and then long-ways , all of which 
artifices the implacable cod-fish sturdily resists, until the guard 
accidentally hits him in the very middle of the basket, whereupon 
be suddenly disappears into the boot, and with him, tbe head 
and shoulders of the guard himself, who,, not calculating upon 
so sudden a . cessation of the passive resistance of the cod-fish ; 
experiences a very unexpected shock, to tbe unsmotherable 
delight of all the porters and by-standers. Upon this, Mr. Pick- 
wick smiles with great good humour, and drawing a shilling 
from his waistcoat pocket, begs the guard, as he picks himself 
out of the boot , to drink his health in a glass of hot brandy and 
water, at which the guard smiles too,. and Messrs. Snodgrass, 
Winkle, and Tupman, all smile in company. The gnard and 
Mr. Weller disappear for five minutes , most probably to get lhe 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OF T0E PICKWICK CLUB. 331 

hot brandy and water, for they smell very strongly of it, when 
they returq^ the coachman mounts to the box , Mr. Weller 
jumps up behind, the Pickwickian^ pull their coats round their 
legs , and- their shawls over their noses; the helpers pull the 
horse-cloths off, the coachman shouts out a cheery “All right,” 
and away they go. 

They have rumbled through the streets , and jolted over 'the 
stones , and at length reach the wide and open country. This 
wheels skim over the hard and frosty ground ; and the horses, 
bursting hater a canter at a smart crack of the whip, step along 
the road as if the load behind theta, coach, passengers, cod-fish, 
oyster barrels , and all , were but a feather at their heels. They 
have descended a gentle slope, and enter upon a level, as com- 
pact and dry as a solid block of marble, two miles long. Another 
crack of the whip, and on they speed, at a smart gallop, the 
horses tossing their heads and rattling the harness as if in exhi- 
laration at the rapidity of the motion , while the coachman , 
holding whip and reins in one hand , takes off his hat with the 
other, and resting it on his knees, pulls out his handkerchief, 
and wipes his forehead , partly because he has a habit of doing 
it, and partly because it’s, as well to shew the passengers how 
cool he is , and what an easy thing it is to drive four-in-hana7 
when you have had as much practice as he has. Having done 
this very leisurely (otherwise the effect would be materially im- 
paired), he replaces' his handkerchief, pulls on his hat, adjusts 
bis' gloves , squares his elbows , cracks the whip again , and on 
they speed , more merrily than before. 

A few small houses scattered on either srdfe of the road , beto- 
ken the entrance to some town or village. The lively notes of the 
guard’s key bugle vibrate in the clear cold air, and wake up the 
old gentleman inside , who carefully letting down the window-* 
s*8h halfway, and standing sentry over the air, takes a short 
peep out , and then carefully pulling it up again , informs the 
other inside that they’re going to change directly ; on which the 
other inside wakes himself up , and determines to postpone hia 
next nap until after the stoppage. Again the bugle sounds lustily 
forth, and rouses the cottager’s wife and children, who peep out 
at the house-door, and watch the' coach tffl it turns the corner, 
when they once more crouch round the blazing fife, and throw 
on another log of wodd against father comes home , while father 
himself f a toll mile off; has just exchanged a friendly nod with 
the coachman , and turned round , to take a good long stare at 
the vehicle as it whirls away. 

And now the bugle plays a lively air as the' coach rattles 
through the ill-paved streets of a country town ; add the coach- 
man, undoing the buckle which keeps his ribands together, pre- 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


aSS <’ BQBDHUMOUB ' IP AIKHR S ' 

pettosj to rthiwwi toeiw. efp ttife iwohient MfePldkwi<& 

«roflngte9f(t , ora'iu3 (cost - cofiarj tabd ' locks abotrt bMiwith great 
auitwsity jipsttiemng whieh , the'cosehmBnnnfotms Mrr iPieb^ 
wiok'bCthfi saame-ofithe town ,-and tells him it wrisrrtartfeWtey 
yesterday, both which pieces of information Mr. ISofcwiek'tetails 
to this tbllow^passengers , whereupon they emerge- from their 
oodtncollars :topv and look-about them also. Mr. Winkle , who 
sits at ' the. exlreifie i edge , with one' leg dangling mtheanv'is 
nearly precipitated -into the street, as the coach twists round the 
sharp) oomer by the i cheese-monger’s shop, and turns into the 
nvarket-^ace pand before Mr. Snodgrass , 1 who kits next to him; 
has recovered from his alarm, they pull up at the inn yard, 
where the fresh horses, with cloths on, are already waitings 
The coachman throws down the reins and gets down himself, 
and the other outside passengers drop down also, except those 
who- have no great confidence in their ability to get up again, 
and they remain where they are, and stamp their feet against 
the coach to warm them; looking with longing eyes and red 
coses at the bright fire in the inn bar-, and the sprigs of hotty 
with red berries which ornament the window. : U -i 
.But the guard has delivered, at the corn-dealer’s shop, the 
brown paper packet he took out off the little pouch which hangs 
over bis shoulder by a leathern strap , and has seen the horses 
carefully put to , and has thrown on the pavement the- saddle 
which was- brought from London on the eoaclM'Oof , and has 
assisted in the conference between the coachman and the hostler 
about the grey 'mare >that hurt her off-fore-leg lastTuesday, and 
be and Mrr Weller’ are all right behind, and the coachman is 
all right in-frtint, and toe old gentleman inside, who has kept 
the window’ down frill two inches all this time, has pulled it up 
again, and the. cloths are off, and they are alt ready for starting, 
except the “two stout gentlemen,” whom the coachman ic- 
iquires aflser wito someimpatieuee. Hereupon the coaehraaU, and 
tlx; guard pandiSamWefier; ! ai*d' Mr. Winkle , sand ’Mr;’ Snod*- 
grassjiand.ak 'the hostlers; and' every one of the idters,whoiare 
more in number than all the others put togfeth&vshout dor the 
missing gentlSinep adJldod asrthey can bawl. i A toistabt response 
is 'heart! ineai Lthai i yard /mi' Mw ■ 'Pidrwick andiMtt sTupttian 
cornel vumcnmg ddsmtHi/iq«ite«>outi<ofbrehthyforitoey have been 
lunpngia -gUssiofi atea-+pieeev *id Mn’ Pickwkk’s 4ingers are so 
cold /toatlhetoas ibdexv 'foil goe-miriutesbefore hecouldfind the 
skpeccaitclrpiyiiforiit. Tbe> 60 ichm*»' shouts' «n admonitory 
“ Now/ .then , geriWn,” toe guard re-eohoes it — the old gentle- 
man inside thinks ita very extraordinary thing that people will 
get down when they know there isn’t time for it — Mr. Pick- 
wicksta-ugglesiup 'on One'side', Mr. Tupman on the other, Mr. 


Digitized by 


Google 



OF Om'tPrcKWUlKl tGMIB. SSO 

WiiBWo 1 cries “ Aft right, ’f .and. e# 'toeyistartoiShawldbitd pelted 
up,: coat collars acere-adjusted, tbe pavement eeksas*'the4tottslfe 
disappear ; sad they are onoe again dashiBgato-ngthei open- road* 
with the fresh clear air blowing in their faces > and gladdenin g 
their very hearts within them. - ; >i,n, in-! . /i.lm'wt 

Such was the progress of Mr. PiekwickandhisfiriendB by the 
Muggleton Telegraph, on their Way -to. DingleyiDeB^oantt^ 
three o’clock that afternoon , they *11 stood y irigh/and- dry, safe 
and: sound* hale and hearty, uponthe- steps!(rf.theBlupjIik>ni, 
having taken on the road quite' enough i of site <nhrd -br»n«ly*.it© 
enable them to hid .defiance, to the. frost -tftafc WaBhindingJupith* 
earth in its iron fetters* and wBaying.its hetutiful network upoi. 
the trees and hedges.- Mr. Pickwick wasibufedy engaged :m 
counting the barrels of oysters , and superintending the diS- 
ioterment of the cotMish, iwben.he felt himself gently putted by 
the skirts of the chat.;, and locking, round, he discovered that Che 
individual who resorted ton this -mode of catching his attention, 
was ‘no other than -Mrv Wacdlefa favourite page , better - knowta 
toil the readers of ttijsiunyacniahed- history by the distinguishing 
appellation of the fnthoy^ .m ne-o u«i £»*i diiw 

Ahni’^said-Mri. Pickwick. . t i , t < L -;~ -jii.'loH 

h«.)t ;i 'i-.-iici! ftwo-nt 

-.Andashesaid-it* be glanced frouuthe eodrfish to j the. dyster+ 
barrels , and chuoktedijeyiWsiy^- He! was fatter tbameivgtlui neo 
» rl‘;WeJli, yourtook Tn*y. ) enoughi* l toyiyoung.fini(nld^!?vBaia)ftff‘ 
Picfewicfc.' hw- '■dr.' i wf:-d -oa n-iinoj osfj ui hoJrfi>,a/i 

in.f* Trn beeniosleep, rightin front of the tapwoona ficeyfl replied 
the fat boy, who- bad heated himself to ihei colour idfiat ned- 
chimney-pot, in the course of an hour’s nap. ^ Master sent me 
over withthe chay-cart, to carry your luggageup to thehousOi 
He’d ha’ sent some saddle horses, but he thought- you’d rather 
walk, being a cold day.” - - • 

. “ Yes, yes,” said Mr. Piokwick, - hastily;! tor be remembered 
how they had travelled over- nearly the same ground i cm- aj pre- 
vious occasion. M Yes, wewould-n^her Walk. Here, tSam/h -:.; 

- “ Sir,” said Mr. Welter* -i o/i-i- .i. -m 

“ Help Mr. Wardle’s servant -tor putithe i packages iptodhe 
«art, and then ride ou with him. / We.williwalk forward ahoneec” 
.■ Having given, this dfaectionyandisrified/wdh toeamhman, 
Mr. Pickwick and his three friends struck, into-the - fogitpath 
across the fields, and walkodhriskly awayv -leaving >Mti, Welter 
and the fat boy confronted; together for ilhe first timey,,$am 
looked at the fat boy withigreafc astonishment* but withautsaying 
a word 5 and began to stow:the things papidly-asray in the cart, 
while the fat boy stood quietly by* aacLseemad to thinfe it a. very 
interesting sort of thing .to see M-n. iWeUeruwqck«)g,by lMnaseH'. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


33(4 POSTHUMOUS PAPBRS 

,,‘‘Thew,” said Sam, throwing in the last carpet-bag. “ There 
they are.” - 

Yes,” said the fat boy, in a very satisfied, tone, “ there they 
are*,” * 

“ Well, young twenty stun,” said Sam , “ you’re a nice spe- 
cimen of a prize boy, you are. ” 

“ Thank’ee,” said the fat boy. 

“ You ain’t got nothin’ on your mind, as makes youfret your- 
self, have you ?” inquired Sam. 

“ Not as I knows on,” replied the boy. . 

“ I should raytber ha’ thought , to look at you, that you was 
a labourin’ under an unrequited attachment to .some young 
’ooman,” said Sam. 

The fat boy shook his head. > 

“ Well,” said Sam, “I’m glad to hear it. Do you ever drink 
anythin’?” 

“ I likes eating, better,” replied the boy. 

“ Ah,” said Sam , “ I should ha’ s’posed that; but what I 
mean is, should you like a drop of anythin’ as’d warm you? 
but I s’pose you never was cold , with all them elastic fixtures, 
was you?” 

“ Sometimes,” replied the boy, and I likes a drop of some- 
thing, when it’s good.” 

“ Oh, you do, do you?” said Sam. “ Come this vay, then.” 

The Blue Lion tap was soon gained, and the fat boy swallow- 
ed a glass of liquor without so much as winking, — a feat which 
considerably advanced him in Mr. Weller’s good opinion. Mr. 
Weller having transacted a similar piece of business on bis own 
account , they got into the cart. 

“ Can you drive? ” said the fat boy. 

“ I should rayther think so ,” replied Sam. 

“ There , then,” said the fat boy, putting the reins in his hand, 
and pointing up a lane. “It’s as straight as you can go; you 
can’t miss it.” 

With these words , the fat boy laid himself affectionately down 
by the side of the cod-fish , and placing an oyster-barrel under 
his head for a pillow, fell asleep instantaneously. 

“ Veil ,” said Sam , “ of all the cool boys ever I set my eyes 
on , this here young gen’lm’n is about the coolest. Come , vake 
up; young dropsy.” , 

But as young dropsy evinced no symptoms of returning 
animation, Sam Weller sat himself down in front of the cart, 
and starting the old horse with a jerk of therein , jogged steadily 
on , towards Manor Farm. 

Meanwhile , Mr. Pickwiek and his friends having walked their 
blood into: activei circulation , proceeded Cheerfully on ; the paths 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



OP THE PfCKWlCK CLUB. $§& 

were hard, -the grasses crisp and frosty, the 'air had'a'fine, 
dry, bracing coldness , and the rapid approach of the grey twilight 
(slate-coloured is a better term in frosty weather) madd them 
look forward with pleasant anticipation to the comforts which 
awaited them at their hospitable entertainer’s. It was the sort of 
afternoon that might induce a couple of elderly gentlemen , in a 
lonely held, to take off their great coats and play at leap-frog in 
pure lightness of heart and gaiety ; and we firmly believe that 
had Mr. Tupman at that moment proffered “ a back ,” Mr. Pick- 
wick would have accepted his offer with the utmost avidity. 

However, Mr. Tupman did not volunteer any such personal 
accommodation, and the friends walked on , conversing merrily. 
As they turned into a lane which they had to cross, the sound 
of many voices burst upon their ears ; and before they had even 
jiad time to form a guess as to whom they belonged , they walked 
into the very centre of the parly who were expecting their ar- 
rival —a fact which was first notified to the Pickwickians , by 
the loud “ Hurrah ,” which burst from old Wardle’s lips , when 
they appeared in sight. 

First, there was Wardle himself, looking , if that were pos- 
sible, more jolly than ever; then there were Bella and her 
faithful Trundle; and, lastly, there were Emily and some eight 
or ten young ladies, who had all come down to the wedding 
which was to take place next day, and were in as happy and 
important a state as young ladies usually are , on such momentous 
occasions; and they were , one and all, startling the fields and 
lanes fiar and wide with their frolic and laughter. 

The ceremony of introduction , under such circumstances 
was very soon performed , or we should rather say 4hat the 
introduction was soon over, without any ceremony at all ; and 
in two minutes thereafter, Mr. Pickwick was joking with the 
young ladies who wouldn’t come over the stile while he looked 
or who, having pretty feet and unexceptionable ankles, pre- 
ferred standing on the top-rail for five minutes or so, and 
declaring that they were too frightened to move , with as much 
ease and absence of reserve or constraint , as if he had known 
them for life. It is worthy of remark too , that Mr. Snodgrass 
offered Emily far more assistance than the absolute terrors of the 
stile (although it was full three feet high , and had only a couple 
of stepping-stones) would seem to require; while one black-eyed 
young lady in a very nice little pair of boots with fur round the 
top , was observed to scream very loudly, when Mr. Winkle 
offered to help her over. 

All this was very’ snug and pleasant : and when the difficulties 
of the stile were at last surmodnted , and they once more entered 
on the open field , old Wardle informed Mr. Pickwick how they 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


486 >i BOS’BBVWODS'l PAPERS 

<ImrNIB b«n down-in Pihe*fitoiinsp6ct»the ftanitone****! fHtings- 
*«d|> atitthh ttoufle;>wtoieb the ytourig couple w<*eute- tenant , alter 
ttw^tM%lrdas holidays;’ dtwhioh communication Bella and 
IVanfilb both eoleuredup , as red as the fat boy alter the . tap- 
room fire; and the young lady with the black eyes sad the for 
~#odhd'the boots , whispered something in Emily’s ear, and then 
<gtencedarchlyat Mr. Snodgrass , towhich Emily responded that 
Aha was a foolish girt, bat turned very red, notwithstanding ; 
and Mr. Snodgrass, who was as modest as ail great geniuses 
usually are , felt the orimson rising to the crown of his head , and 
'devoutly wished , in the inmost recesses of his own heart , that 
the young lady aforesaid , with her black eyes , and her archness , 
and her boots with the fur round the top , were all comfortably 
deposited in the adjacent county. 

But if they were social and happy, outside the house, what 
was (the warmth and cordiality of their reception when they 
reached the farm! The very servants grinned with pleasure at 
sight of Mr. Pickwick at{d Emma bestowed a half-demure , 
half-impudent , and all pretty look of recognition on Mr. Tupman, 
which was enough to make the statue of Bonaparte in the pas- 
sage , unfold his arms , and clasp her within them. 

The old lady was seated in customary state in the front parlour, 
but she was rather cross , and by consequence most particularly 
deaf. She never went out herself, and like a great many other 
old ladies of the same stamp , she was apt to consider it an act 
of domestic treason , if anybody else took the liberty of doing 
what she couldn’t. So, bless her old soul, she sat as upright as 
she could , in her great chair, and looked as fierce as might be 
— and that was benevolent after all. 

“ Mother,” said Wardle , “ Mr. Pickwick. You recollect him.” 

“Never mind,” replied the old lady with great dignity. 
“Don’t trouble Mr. Pickwick about an old creetur like me. 
Nobody cares about me now, and it’s very nat’ral they shouldn’t.” 
Here the old lady tossed her head , and smoothed down her 
lavender-coloured silk dress , with trembling hands. 

‘ ‘ Come , come , ma’am said Mr. Pickwick , “ I can’t let you 
cut an old friend in this way. I have come down expressly to 
have a long talk , and another rubber with you ; and we’ll show 
these boys and girls how mdRoce a minuet , before they’re eight- 
and-forty hours older.” ^ ' 

The old lady was rapidly- giving way, but she did not like to 
do it all at once ; so she only said , “ Ah ! I can’t hear him.” 

“ Nonsense , mother,” said Wardle. “ Come , come , don’t be 
cross, there’s a good soul. Recollect Bella; come, you must 
keep her spirits up, poor girl.” 

The good old lady heard this, for Ijer lip quivered as her son 


t. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


OFhIBB iPHUbWKK 'ACJUB. 

said it; But afe has: its littleinfirmitteimf tamper, >aad ribrtmw" 
not quite brought round yet; So, sbe smootiiedi ddtv» <^e 
lavender-coloured dress again;, and turning to Air.: Pickwick , 
said , “Ab, Mr. Pickwick , young people Was very different , 
when I was a girl/' ; 

>- “ No doubt of that , ma’am , ’’ said Mr . Pickwick , ; “ and; that’s 
tbereason why I would make much of the few thatbaveiaqy 
traces of the old stock * and saying this, Mr. Pkkwick^geotly 
potted Bella towards him , and bestowing a kiss upon her fore- 
head , bade her sit down on the little stpol at her grandmother’s 
feet. Whether the expression of her countenance, as it w#s 
raised towards the old lady’s face , called up a thought of old 
times, or whether the. old lady was touched by Mr. Pickwick’s 
affectionate good nature , or whatever was the cause , she was 
fairly melted ; so , she threw herself on her grand-daughter’s 
neck , and all the little ill-humour evaporated in a gush of silent 
tears. 

A happy party they were , that night. Sedate and solemn 
mere the score of rubbers in which Mr. Pickwick and tbe old 
lady played together 5 and uproarious was the mirth of the 
round table. Long after the ladies had retired , did the hot elder -2. 
wring, well qualified with brandy and spice, go round, and rqun37 ‘ 
and round again •, and sound was the sleep , and pleasant were J J*- 
the dreams that followed. It is a remarkable fact , that thosoof ^ } 1 n 
Mr. Snodgrass bore constant reference to Emily WardftTf and 
that the principal figure in Mr. Winkle’s visions, was a young,, 
lady with black eyes , an arch smile , and a pair of remarkable /’ 1 
nice boots , with fur round the tops. J ~ 

Mr. Pickwick was awakened early in the morning ,J>y a hum 
of voices and pattering of feet , sufficient to rouse even the fat 
boy from his heavy slumbers. He sat up in bed, and listened. 

The female servants and female visitors were running constantly 
to and fro; and there were such multitudinous demands for warm 
water, such repeated outcries for needles and thread, and so 
many half-suppressed entreaties of “ Oh , do come and tie me, 
there’sadear,” that Mr. Pickwick in his innocence began to ima- 
gine that something dreadful must have occurred, when he grew 
more awake, and remembered the wedding. The occasion being 
an important one , he dressed himself with peculiar care, and 
descended to the breakfast room. 

There were all tbe female servants in a bran new uniform of 
pink muslin gowns with white bows in their caps , running about 
the house in a state of excitement and agitation , which it would 
he impossible to describe. The old lady was dressed out , in a 
broca ded g own . which had not seen the light for twenty years, C> 
Saving' and excepting such truant rays as had stolen through the 
I. 22 




Digitized by v^.ooQle 


338 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 


chinks.jp the, bo* in which it -bad. been laid by, daring the whole 
timej oMr. Trundle was in high feather and- spirits, hut alittle 
nervous withal. The hearty old landlord was trying to look 


, very cheerful and unconcerned , but failing signally in the at- 
i tempt. All the girls were ^n tears and white muslin^ except a 
‘ select two or three , who were being honourecTwitn a private 


view of the bride and bridesmaids, up stairs. All thePickwickians 
were in most blooming array; and there was a terrific roaring 
oh the grass in front of the house, occasioned by all the men, 
boys , and hobbledehoys attached to the form , each of whom 
had got a vlrfute howln his button hole, and all of whom were 
cheering with might and main : being incited thereto , and sti- 
mulated therein , by the precept and example of Mr. Samuel 
Weller, who had managed to become mighty popular already, 
and was as much at home as if he had been born on the 


land. 

A wedding, is a licensed subject to joke upon , but there really 
is no great joke in the matter after all ; we speak merely of the 
ceremony, and beg it to be distinctly understood that we indulge 
in no hidden sarcasm upon a married life. Mixed up with the 
pleasure and joy of the occasion , are the many regrets at quit- 
ting home , the tears of parting between parent and child , the 
consciousness of leaving the dearest and kindest friends of the 
happiest portion of human life, to encounter its cares and 
troubles with others still untried, and little known — natural 
feelings which we would not render this chapter mournful by 
describing, and wish we should be still more unwilling to be 
supposed to ridicule. 

Let us briefly say, then , that the ceremony was performed by 
the old clergyman , in the fjkrish church of Dingley Deil , and 
that Mr. Pickwick’s name is attached to the register, still pre- 
served in the vestry thereof ; that the young lady with the black 
eyes signed her name in a very unsteady and tremulous manner; 
and that Emily’s signature, as the other bridesmaid , is nearly - 
illegible; that it all went off in very admirable style ; that the 
young ladies generally thought it far less shocking than they 
expected ; and that although the owner of the black eyes and the 
arch smile informed Mr. Winkle that she was sure she could 
never submit to anything so dreadful , we have the very best 
reasons for thinking she was mistaken. To all this , we may 
add , that Mr. Pickwick was the first who saluted the bride : 
and that in so doing , he threw over her neck a rich gold watch 
and chain , which no mortal eyes but the jeweller’s had ever 
beheld before. Then the old church bell rang as gaily as it 
could , and they all returned to breakfast. 

“Vere does the mince-pies go, young opium eater?” said 



OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 33d 

Mr. Weller to the fat boy, as he assisted in laying otlt such ar- 
ticles of consumption as had not been duly arranged on the pre- 
vious night. 

The fat boy pointed to the destination of the pies. 

• “ Wery good said Sam , “stick a bit o’ Christmas in ’em. 

T’other dish opposite. There ; now ve look compact and com- 
fortable, as the father said ven he cut his little boy’s head off, 
to cure him o’ squintin’.” ^ 

As Mr. Weller made the comparison, he fell back a step or 
two, to give lull effect to it , and surveyed the preparations with 
the utmost satisfaction, 

“ Wardle ,” said Mr. Pickwick, almost as soon as they were 
all seated, “a glass of wine, in honour of this happy oc- 
casion ! ” 

“ I shall be delighted, my boy,” said Wardle. “ Joe— damn 
that boy, he’s gone to sleep.” 

“ No , I ain’t , sir,” replied the fat boy, starting up from a re- / 
mote comer, where , like the patron saint of fat boys — the im- 
mortal Horner — he had been devouring a Christmas pie, Jttyf 
though ndt'with the coolness and deliberation which cbaracteris- * 
ed that young gentleman’s proceedings. „ 

“ Fill Mr. Pickwick’s glass.” ■ t 

“Yes, sir.” 

The fat boy filled Mr. Pickwick’s glass, and then retired 
behind his master’s chair, from whence he watched the play, of 
the knives and forks , and the progress of the choice morsels , 
from the dishes to the mouths of the company, with a kind of 
dark and gloomy joy that was most impressive. 

“ God bless you , old fellow,” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Same to you , my boy,” replife^. Wardle, and they {Hedged 
each other, heartily. ’ » 

“ Mrs. Wardle,” said Mr. Pickwick, “ we old folks must have 
a glass of wine together, in honour of this joyful event.” 

The old lady was in a state of great grandeur just then , for she 
was sitting at the top of the table in the brocaded gown, with her 
newly-married daughter on one side, and Mr. Pickwick on the 
other, to do the carving. Mr. Pickwick had not spoken in a very 
loud tone , but she understood him at once , and drank off a full 
glass of wine to his long life and happiness; after which the worthy 
old soul launched forth into a minute and particular account of 
her own wedding, with a dissertation on the fashion of wearing 
high-heeled shoes, and some particulars concerning the life and 
adventures of the beautiful Lady Tollimglower, deceased , at all 
of which the old lady herself laughed very heartily indeed , and 
so did the young ladies too , for they were wondering among 
themselves what on earth grandma was talking about. When they 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


JL 



tflO POSTHOTftrtJS' ' 5A I MR9 

mighed , the old lady laughM tertlW«‘ri<»% ! 
that they always had beerf Considered 1 capfl&l 1 ‘SKtf Hfe V ' ^Hlth 
dibsed them all to laugh againy&ndput the bldlady ’hiWthevery 
best of humours. Then the eak^Nvas cut , and passed thw mghthe 
ring t and the young ladies saved pieces to put UhdeFtfifiFpihdwi^ 
to dream of their future husbands OB ; anda great deal of blush- 
ing and merriment was thereby occasioned. 

“ Mr. Miller,” said Mr. Plekwiok to hisoldacquairftahoe,thb 
hard-headed gentleman , “ a gtesS'Of Wine?” ! 1 ' : 

“ With great satisfaction ’ Mf'.JPickwfck ^ replied the hard- 

headed gentleman , solemnly. 3 

“ You’ll take me in?” said the bettevolentoldclergymart. 

“ And me interposed his trite. ! " I • • r 

“ And me , and me said a couple of poor relatiomS atthe 
bottom of the table, who had ’eaten and drank Very heartily,' and 

laughed at everything. ’ ” . ! " " "• "" ' 

Air. Pickwick expressed his heartfelt ‘delight - aT every addi- 
tional suggestion ; and his eyeB beamed with hilarity acid Cheer- 
fulness. ' ; ' yi ’ " ' 

“ Ladies and gentlemen,” said Air. Pickwick, BUddenlyrising^- 
“ Hear, hear! Hear, hear! Hear, hear!’” Said Mr. WeUer,m 
the excitement of his feelings. ■ ^ . 

“ Call in all the servants;” Cried oldWardle , interposing to 
prevent the public rebuke Which Mr; Weller would otherwise 
most indubitably have received from his master. : 

“ Give them a glass of wine each , to drink the toast in; Now, 
Pickwick.” . - 

Amidst the silence of the company, the whispering of the 
women servants, and the awkward embarrassment of the men , 
Mr. Pickwick proceeded. j , 

“ Ladies and gentlemen -4- no , I won’t say ladies and gentle- 
men , I’ll call you my friends, my dear friends , if the ladies will 
allow me to take so great a liberty”- — - 

Here Air. Pickwick was interrupted by immense applause from 
the ladies, echoed by the gentlemen , during which the oWner of 
the black eyes was distinctly heard to state that she could kiss that 
dear Mr. Pickwick, whereujfon'Mr', Winkle gallantly inquired if 
it couldn’t be done by deputy; to Which 1 the young tady-with the 
black eyes replied , “ Go aw&y ’Vwandaccompahied the request 

with a look which said as plainly as a look could do if you 

ean.” * . ■ u ^ jti-uoo'! -.hue ‘r. i n /P : 

“ My dear friends,” resumed- MtyiPicfeWlok ; rtVI.am going- to 
propose the health of the bridoand bridegroom!- 4 *- God'bless ?tem 
( cheers and tears ). Aly yoimgifrierid TrufldlbyT betkfve to he a 
very excellent and manly feltow Yaud’ his Wife I fcnoW to be a 
very amiable and lovely girl-; wcttq^iafifitd to trahsfer te-another 


Digitized by 


Google 


OE w? PICKWW: CWB. (S41 

fcphero,,of/flpy«l* tiwfc happiness wificfi . for twenty, y^rs,^|^s 
diffused jur^midi fcwvinj heri father’* bouse* . < Here, ^t^.fat j|)#y 
burst. forth, into stentorian blubbering*, and was fed, forth fiy, (he 
coat collar, i by. Mr. Weller.) I wish,,” added, Mr.. Pipkwfek, 

“ I wish I was, young enough to be her sister's husband (Cheers), 
but, failing, that ,. I am happy to, be old enough tofee, her father v 
for being so , I shall not be suspected of any. latent desigus,>vhen 
I say, that I > admire, . esteem , and love/ them both (cheers and 
sobs ). The bride’s father, our good friend there, is . a poble per- 
son, and I am , proud to. know him, ( great juproar). He is a 
kind , excellent , independent-spirited T fine-hearted , hospitable, 
liberal man (enthusiastic shouts from the poor relations , at all 
the adjectives , and especially at. the two last). That his. daughter 
may enjoy all the happiness , even he can desire ; and that he 
may derive, from the contemplation of her felicity all the gratifica- 
tion of heart and peace of mind which he so well deserves , is , 

I am persuaded ,, our united wish, , So, let us drink their healths, 
and wish them iprolonged .life , , and every blessing.” 

Mr. Pickwick concluded amidst a whirlwind of applause ; and 
once more were the dungs of, the supernumeraries, under Mr. 
Weller’s command, brought into active and efficient operation ; 

Mr. Wardle proposed Mr. Pickwick , and Mr. Pickwick proposed 
the old lady. Mr. Snodgrass proposed Mr. Wardle , and Mr. 
Wardle proposed Mr. Snodgrass, One of the poor, relations pro- 
posed Mr. Tupman , and the other poor relation proposed Mr. 
Winkle; and all was happiness and festivity, until the myste- 
rious disappearance of both the poor relations beneath the table, 
warned the party that it was time to adjourn. f 

At dinner they met again, after a five-and-twenty miles walk, 
undertaken by the males at Wardle’s recommendation , to get rid 
of the effects of the wine at breakfast ; the poor relations had lain 
in bed all day, with the view of attaining the same happy con- 
summation , but , as they had been unsuccessful , they stopped: 
there,, Mr. Weller kept the domestics in a state of perpetual 
hilarity ; and the fat boy divided bis time into small alternate 
allotments of eating and sleeping. 

'The dinner was as hearty an affair as the breakfast , and was 
quite as noisy, without the tears. Then came the dessert and 
some more toasts. Then came the tea and coffee ; and th$n , 
the ball. , 

The best sitting-room at Manor Farm was a good, long, cferk- 
pannelled room with a high chimney piece , and a capacious 
chimney, up which you could have driven one of the new patent 
cabs , wheels and all. At the upper end of the room , seated in a 
shady bower of holly and evergreens , were the two best fiddlers , 
and the only harp, in all Muggleton. In all sorts of recesses. 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



•34*2 ' '' POSTHUMOUS PAPERS v 

and' Oir ‘all kinds of brackets, stood massive old silver candle- 
sticks 1 With four branches each. The carpet was up, the candles 
burnt bright , the lire blazed and crackled on the hearth ; and 
mefry voices and light-hearted laughter rang through the room. 
If any of the old English yeoiqen had turned into fairies when 
they died , it was just the place in which they would have held 
their revels. 

If anything could have added to the interest of this agreeable 
scene, it would have been the remarkable fact of Mr. Pick- 
wick’s appearing without his gaiters , for the first time within 
the memory of his oldest friends. 

“You mean to dance?” said Wardle. 

“ Of course I do ,” replied Mr. Pickwick. “ Don’t you see I 
am dressed for the purpose?” and Mr. Pickwick called attention 
to his speckled silk stockings , and smartly tied pumps. 

“ You in silk stockings! ” exclaimed Mr. Tupman jocosely. 

“ And why not , sir — why not? ” said Mr. Pickwick , turning 
warmly upon him. 

“Oh, of course there is no reason why you shouldn’t wear 
them ,” responded Mr. Tupman. 

“I imagine not, sir — I imagine not ,” said Mr. Pickwick in a 
very peremptory tone. 

Mr. Tupman had contemplated a laugh , but he found it was 
a serious matter; so he looked grave, and said they were a very 
pretty pattern. 

“I hope they are,” said Mr. Pickwick fixing his eyes upon 
his friend. “You see nothing extraordinary in these stockings, 
as stockings, I trust , sir? ” 

“Certainly not — oh certainly not,” replied Mr. Tupman. 
He walked away, and Mr. Pickwick’s countenance resumed its 
customary benign expression. 

“ We are all ready , I believe,” said Mr. Pickwick , who was 
stationed with the old lady at the top of the dance , and had al- 
ready made four false starts , in his excessive anxiety to com- 
mence. 

“ Then begin at once,” said Wardle. “ Now.” 

Up struck the two fiddles and the one harp, and off went 
Mr. Pickwick into hands across, when there was a general clap- 
ping of hands , and a cry of “ Stop , stop.” 

“ What’s the matter?” said Mr. Pickwick, who was only 
brought to , by the fiddles and harp desisting , and could have 
been stopped by no other earthly power, if the house had been 
on fire. 

“ Where’s Arabella Allen? ’’said a dozen voices. 

“ And Winkle?” added Mr. Tupman. 

“ Here we are ! ” exclaimed that gentleman , emerging with 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


OF T8P PICKWICK CdLilIB. ^43 

his pretty companion , fr»m the corner, and , iU 

would have been .hard to tell which was. the redder <Wi4Jhf> /#(*> , 
he or the young lady with the black eyes. „ . , |.^ n< i j, n3 d 

What an extraordinary thing it is, Winkle,” saidM^iPlek- 
wick, rather pettishly, “ that you couldn’t have token your, place 
before.” .... ,, 

“ Not at all extraordinary,” said Mr. Winkle. > > 

4 ‘ Well,” said ;Mr. Pickwick, with a very expressive smile , 
as his eyes rested on Arabella , “ well, I don’t know that it was 
extraordinary, either, after all.” 

However,? there was no time to think more about the matter, 
for the fiddles and harp began in real earnest. Away went ; 
Mr. Pickwick — hands across , down the middle to the very end - 
of the room , and half way up the chimney, back again to the 
door — poussette ^everywhere — loud stamp on the ground — 
ready for the next couple— off again — all the figure over once 
more — another stamp to heat out the time — next couple, and | 
the next, and the next again — never was such going*, and at \ 
last , after they had reached the bottom of the dance, and full I 
fourteen couple after the old lady had retired in an exhausted i 
state, and the Clergyman’s wife had been substituted in her 
stead, did that gentleman , when there was no demand whatever ; 
on his exertions, keep perpetually dancing in his place, to keep; 
time to the f music , smiling on his partner all the while with al 
blandness of demeanour which baffles all description. 

Long before Mr. Pickwick was weary of dancing , the newly- 
married couple had; retired from the scene. There was a glo- 
rious supper down stairs , notwithstanding , and a good long 
sitting after it; and when Mr. Pickwick awoke, late the next 
morning, he had a confused recollection of having, severally 
and confidentially, invited somewhere about five-and-forty 
people*|to dine with him at the George and Vulture, the very 
first tiihej they came to London; which Mr. Pickwick rightly 
considered a pretty certain indication of his having taken some- 
thing besides exercise , on the previous night. 

“ And so your family has games in the kitchen to-night, my 
dear, has they?” inquired Sam of Emma. 

“ Yes, Mr. Weller,” replied Emma ; “ we always have bn 
Christmas; eye. Master wouldn’t neglect to keep it up, on any 
account.” ' , , 

“ Your master’s a wery pretty notion of keepin’ anythin’ up, 
my dear,” said Mr. Weller; “ I never see such a sensible sort of 
man as he is;, 'jar such a reg’lar gen’l’m’n.” 

“ Oh , thathe is ! ” said thq fat boy, joining in the conversa- 
tion; “ don’t he breqd pice pprk? ” and the fat youth gave a 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


344b HOS'EKHJISCHIS.PAPEBS >■ 

semMaafoittldiaileer at> Mrl IWlellerV as'he ^thought of ithe roast 
hqjk andgravy. , jdyn iiA ' .rr'm’i'ny;* M<> •»!•' -o> niniiii' 
irfb©h3 ymtfYeWwkeupy atilas*/h*T8 yoa?<l'saidjSain<! >■*<■ 
rrtBheflatlwyihoddefi.n; r '••m* .1 >!«« ■’ill m... 

. stfSIflHtelliiyiou /what it -is youngboa constaructer,? isakt ;Mpi : 
"Wallop, im prlessLVely , f ‘ if you don't sleep alittleless., andexer* 
cise a little more, ven you comes to be a man you’HHaiyiyoursctf 
opflntti the fiamfi :soct o?; personal inconTrenience as was infliotod 
ogbtheioidgefc’tfmhi aswore thepigitaii.’’". •• 1 •’"■••■!•!»> • 

M What did theydo to him ?’’ inquired the fed boy, in * falter- 
ingroiee. ■> -,m. Mi '.jioiu". -»i: .Ovido. - 
“ I’m a goin’ >to telLyoa,” replied.Mr. Weller y, ^he wasone -« 
o’ the largest patterns as was ever turned out— -regular ifiat man , 
as hadn’t caught a glimpse of hiB own shoes tor fiver^ndr-faty., 
years.”- ■ ■ . - . u> v. ,-i-i ■ ... .«!■> 

“ Lor ! ” exclaimed Emma. ■ -i- >- . i '< 

“ No , that he hadn’t, my dear,” said Mr. Weller,- “ ami if 
you’d put an exact model of his own legs on the. dinin’ table 
afore him, he wouldn’t ha’ known ’em- Well , he always , Walks 
to his ofliee with a wary handsome gold watch-chaimhangifigoat, - 
about a foot and a half, and a gold watch in his fob pocket aiwas • 
worth— I’m afraid' to say how much, but astmuoh/a&awafch 
can he— a large, heavy round manafacter, as stout for; a watch, 
as he was for a man, and with a big face in, proportion. ‘ Youfd 
better not carry that ’ere. watch,’ says the old gen’l’m’n’s friends, 

‘ you’ll he cobbed on it ,’ says they. * Shall I? ’ says he.? * Yes , 
Will you says they, ‘ Veil,’ says he , 4 1 should like to see the 
thief as could get this here watch out, for I’m, blessed if l ever 
can $ it’s such a light fit,’ says he, * and venever I pants to know 
what’s o’clock, I’m obliged to stare into the bakers’ shops he 
says. Well, then he laughs as hearty as if he was a.goin’.to 
pieces, and out he walks agin, with his powdered head and pig- 
tail, and rolls down the Strand vith the chain hangin’ out fqrder 
than ever, and the great round watch almost hastin’ through. his 
grey kersey smalls. There warn’t a pickpocket in all London as 
didn’t take a pull at that chain, but the chain ’ud never break.; and 
the watch ’ud never come out, so they soon got tired o’ dragging 
such a heavy old gen’l’m’n along the pavement, and he’d go home 
and lauglt till the pjgrtail wibrated like the penderlumiof a Dutch 
clock. At tyst, one day the old.genTm’n was a roUrn’ along,, and 
he sees a pickpocket as he know’d by eighty a-comin’ up.; arm . 
in arm vith a little boy yith a ,wery large head. ‘ Here’ls agamej!, 
says the old genTm’p to himself, 'they’re a goin’te have an- 
other try * feutit won’t do. J So ho begins a chucklin’ wery hearty, 
ven, all of a, sudden , ; the little boy leaves hold ofthe pickpocket’s' 
arm,, and rusl^s. headforemost straight .into the oldgen’i’m’n’s 


Digitized by 


by Google 


OF T**t WCK.W*CK. CfcUB. 3 ik / ;: 

stomachy findfora momeHl doubled hibi right up>vathjlte‘p«iite? 
‘Murder!’ says the old genTm’n. ‘All right , fii^l 

pickpocket , a whisperin' in his hear; Apd v^heeunp stfolght 
agin’, the watch and chain was gone , andwbatfs/iwtaiUetthin 
that, the-eld gen’l’n^n’s digestion wps all wrodg/evoratftprlttt'da, 
to the wery last day of his life ; so just you look abeufa you, . yoilng/ 
feller, and take care you don’t gettoo fat.’' e 

As Mr, Weller concluded this^ moral tale 1 , with whiob tbeifefo 
boy appeared much affected, they all three wcided tbetnUiayu. 
to the large Intdwa, . in which the family were by this> tilnd as- 
sembled, according to annual custom on Christmas eve, observed 1 * 
by old Wardle’s forefatheiaficmtime immemorial. i • i. S' 

Front the centre bf the ceiling of this kitohen, old Wardle 
had just suspended with/his own-hands a huge branohofmisUetoe, 
and this same branch of mistletoe instantaneously gave rise tot* ,• 
scene of general and most delightful struggling and confnsibn ; 
in the midst of which' Mr. Pickwick, with a gallantry which / 
would have done honour to a descendant of lady ToUioaglowen 
herself, took the old lady by the hand , led her beneath theti // 
mystic branch, and saluted her in all courtesy and decorum jj; (*/ f 
The old lady submitteffto this piece of practical politeness with, 
all the dignity which befitted so important and serious a selfemw 
nity, but the younger ladies not being so thorougbly imbhad 
with a superstitious veneration of the custom, or imagining that 
the value of a salute is very much enhanced if it eost a little ' 
trouble to obtain it, screamed and struggled, and rain into; 
comers, and threatened and remonstrated , and did everything' 
but leave the room , until some of the les6 adventurous gentle*' 
men were on the point of desisting, when they all at once found 
it useless to resisrany longer, and submitted to be kissed with a 
good grace. Mr. Winkle kissed the young lady with the -black 
eyes, and Mr. Snodgrass kissed Emily; and Mr. Weller, not 
being particular about the form of being under the mistletoe , 
kissed Emma and the other female servants , just as he caught 
them. As to the poor relations, they kissed everybody, not even 
excepting the plainer portion of the young-lady visiters, who,* 
in their excessive confusion , ran right under the mistletoe , 
directly it was hung up, without knowing it! Wardle stood with 
his back to the fire , surveying the whole scene, with the utmost 
satisfaction ; and the fat boy took the opportunity of appropriat- 
ing to his own use, and summarily devouring, a particularly fine 
mince-pie, that had been carefully put by, for sbifiebody£els#. /. 

Now the screaming had subsided , and feoes'were : jh a glow ^ / ' i ~-‘ 
and curls in a tangle , and Mr. Pickwick , after kissing the eld 
]ady as before-mentioned, was standing under themistfetoe, t C'X~ 
looking with a very pleased countenance on air that 'Was passing ' 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



le black eyes , after a 
ies, made a sudden 
Ir. Pickwick’s neck , 
and before Mr. Pick- 
, he was surrounded 
e of them. 

svick in the centre of 
hat , and first kissed 
n on the spectacles , 
fere raised on every 
to see Mr. Pickwick, 
dkerctiief , falling up 
s, and going through 
the utmost relish for 
poor relations ; and 
which he did with a 
uration and applause 
ight just the people 
n the game flagged , 
1 tired of blind-man’s 
m, and when fingers 
raisins gone, they sat 
i substantial supper, 
imaller than an ordi- 
apples were hissing 
( sound , that were 

>und him, “ this is , 

Vardle. “ Everybody 
you see them now — 
clock strikes twelve, 
he time with forfeits 
the fire.” 

he logs were stirred, 
3 W, that penetrated 
st its cheerful tint on 

istmas song. I’ll give 


o hours good, before 
e deep rich colour of 
the sohg.” 

, in a good , round , 
lo— 


Digitized by 


Google 



OP THE PICKWICK -CLUB. 

A CHRISTMAS CAROL. 

I car* not for Spring j on his fickle wing 
Let the blossoms and buds be borne : 

He woos them amain with his treacherous rain , 

. And he scatters them ere the morn. 

An inconstant elf , he knows not himself. 

Or his own changing mind an hour ; 

He’ll smile in your face , and , with wry grimace , 

He’ll wither your youngest flower. 

Let the Summer sun to his bright home run , 

He shall never be sought by me ; 

When he’s dimmed by a cloud I can laugh aloud , 

And care not how sulky he be ; 

For his darling child is the madness wild 
That sports In fierce fever’s train ; 

And when love is too strong , it don’t last long , 

As many bare found to their pain. 

A mild harvest night , by the tranquil light 
Of the modest and gentle moon* 

Has a far sweeter sheen for me , I ween , 

Than the broad and unblushing noon. k 

But every leaf awakens my grief , 

As it lieth beneath the tree: 

So let Autumn air be never so fair. 

It by no means agrees with me. 

But my song I troll out, for Christmas stout , 

The hearty, the true , and the bold ; 

A bumper I drain , and with might and main 
Give three cheers for this Christmas old. 

We’ll usher him in with a merry din 
That shall gladden his joyous heart , 

And we’ll keep him up while there’s bite or Sup , 

And in fellowship good, we’ll part. 

In his fine honest pride , he scorns to hide 
One jot of bis hard-weather scars ; 

They’re no disgrace , for there’s much the same traeo 
On the cheeks of our bravest tars. 

Then again I sing Hill the roof doth ring , 

And it echoes from wall to wall — 

To the stout old wight, fair welcome to-night , 

As the King of the Seasons all ! 

This song was tumultuously applauded , for friends and de- 
pendents make a capital audience ; and the poor relations espe- 
cially were in perfect ecstacies of rapture. Again was tbe fire 
replenished, and again went the wassail round. 


■847 


)■ . I"i|!cr 



■ i, •)< - 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


tPoarrHOKWHs i *awhs> • 

“ How it snows ! ” said one of the men, in a low tone. 

“ Snows, does it? ” said Wardle. 

“ Rough, cold night, sir,” replied the man; “ and there’s 
a wind got up, that drjRs^t aprops the fields , in a thick white 
cloud.” 

“ What does Jem say?” inquired the old lady. “ There ain’t 
anything the matter, is there?” 

“ No, no, mother,” replied Wardle ; “ he says there’s a snow- 
drift , end ai wipil^that’s piercing cold,. <1 should know<thaft , by 
the way it rumbles in the chimney.” . 

“ Ah ! ” said the old lady, there was just such a wind, and 
just such a, fall of snow, a good many years back , I recollect — 
just, five .years before your poor father died. : It was a Christ- 
mas eve , too ; and I remember that on that very night he told 
us the story about the goblins that carried away old Gabriel 
Grub.”. ....... . . 

“ The story about what? ” said Mr. Pickwick. 

“ Oh, nothing — nothing replied Wardle. “ About anold 
sexton, that the good people down here suppose to have been 
carried away by goblins.” ' , 

“ Suppose!” ejaculated the old lady. “ Is there anybody 
hardy enough to disbelieve it ? Suppose ! Haven’t you heard ever 
since ypu were a child, that he was carried away by the goblins, 
and don’t you know he was? ” . > * ;• 

“ Very well, mother, he was, if you like,” said Wardle, 
laughing. “ He was carried away by goblins, Pickwick; and 
there’s an end of the matter.” 

“ No , no ,” said Mr. Pickwick , “ not an end of it, I assure 
you ; for I must hear, how, and why, and all about it.” 

Wardle smiled , as every head was bent forward to hear ; and 
filling out the wassail with no stinted hand, nodded a health to 
Mr. Pickwick , and began as follows — 

I But bless our editorial heart, what a long chapter we have 
been betrayed into ! We had quite forgotten all such petty 
restrictions as chapters, we solemnly declare.. So here goes, to 
give the goblin a fair start in a new one. A dear stage and- no 
favour for the goblins , ladies and gentlemen , if you please. 



Min 


I 


Digitized by Gppsle 


r 


of: in FieH«ncm ' eum. 34$ 

,i! <!• !>I !'! (Mil t f.- -w>llc II V/oll 
/ 1 Imk-- m "h > i > 

. , i t • « * ,,;-w . 

* ■■ CHAPTER XXX: ” ,i: !fV 

bin ■! 

, , . ... ... • - . ■ v.t a 

tat STORY or THE GOBLINS WHO 0TOLE A SHJEW* . : III /•!■• 

,, , . , • .- y I,.., •. ../ 

“ In an old abbey toWn , down in this part of the Oountry, a 
long , long while ago — so long, that thri story must he a true 
one, because our-great grandfathers implicitly believed it— there 
officiated as' sexton and gravel-digger in the Churchyard^ one 
Gabriel Grob. It by 1 no means Mows that because a man is a 
sexton, and constantly surrounded by emblems of mortality, 
therefore he should be a morose and melancholy man *, your 
undertakers are the merriest fellows in the world , and I once had 
the honour of being on ‘intimate terms with 'a mute, who in 
private life, and off duty; was as comical and jocose aUttte fellow 
as ever chirped out a deVil-may-care song , without a hitch in his 
memory, or drained off a good stiff glass of grog without stop- 
ping for breath. Rut notwithstanding these precedents to the con- 
trary, Gabriel Grab was an in-conditioned , cross-grained , Siirly 
fellow — a morose and lonely man, who consorted with nobody 
but himself, and an old wicker bottle which fitted into his large 
deep waistcoat-pocket ; and who eyed each merry fhce as it 
passed him by, with such a deep scowl of malice and ill-humour, 
as it was difficult to meet without feeling something the 
worse for. 

“ A little before twilight one Christmas eve, Gabriel shoul- 
dered his spade, lighted his lantern, and betook himself towards 
the old churchyard, for he had got a grave to finish by next 
morning; and feeling very low, he thought it might raise his 
spirits perhaps; if he went on with his work at once. As he 
wended his way up the ancient street , he saw the Cheerful light 
of the biasing fires gleam through the old casements , and heard 
the loud laugh andthe cheerful 'shouts of those Who were as- 
sembled around them; he mai^ed'the»hustlingpr6pat , atiohs for 
next day’s good cheer, and smelt the numerous savoury odours 
consequent thereupon, as they steamed up from the kitchen 
windows in clouds. All this was gall and wormwood to the heart 
of Gabriel Grub ; and as groups of children bounded out of the 
houses , tripped across the road , and were met , before they 
could knock at the opposite door, by half a dozen curly-headed 
little rascals, who crowded round them as they flocked up stairs 
to spend the evening in their Christmas games , Gabriel smiled 
grimly, and clutched the handle of his spade with a firmer grasp , 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 


350 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

as tie thought of measles , scarlet-fever, thrush, hooping-cough, 

and a good many other sources of consolation beside. 

“ In this happy frame of mind , Gabriel strode along , return- 
ing a short , sullen growl to the good-humoured greetings of such 
of his neighbours as now and then passed him , until he turned 
into the dark lane which led to the churchyard. Now Gabriel 
had been looking forward to reaching the dark lane , because it 
was, generally speaking, a nice gloomy mournful place, into 
which the townspeople did not much care to go, except in 
broad day-light , and when the sun was shining; consequently 
he was not a little indignant to hear a young urchin roaring out 
some jolly song about a merry Christmas , in this very sanctuary, 
which had been called Coffin Lane ever since the days of the old 
abbey, and the time of the shaven-headed monks. As Gabriel 
walked on , and the voice drew nearer, he found it proceeded 
from a small boy, who was hurrying along , to join one of the 
little parties in ihe old street, and who, parity te keep himself 
company, and partly to prepare himself for the occasion , was 
shouting out the song at the highest pitch of his lungs. So Gabriel 
waited till the boy came up , and then dodged him into a corner, 
and rapped him over the head with his lantern five or six times, 
just to teach him to modulate his voice. And as the boy hurried 
away with his hand to his head , singing quite a different sort of 
tune, Gabriel Grub chuckled very heartily to himself, and entered 
the churchyard , locking the gate behind him. 

“ He took off his coat, set down his lantern , and getting into 
the unfinished grave , worked at it for an hour or so, with right 
good-will. Rut the earth was hardened with the frost, and it was 
no very easy matter to break it up , and shovel it out ; and 
although there was a moon , it was a very young one , and shed 
little light upon the grave, which was in the shadow of the church . 
At any other time, these obstacles would have made Gabriel 
Grub very moody and miserable , but he was so well pleased 
with having stopped the small boy’s singing , that he took little 
heed of the scanty progress he had made , and looked down into 
the grave when he had finished work for the night, with grim 
satisfaction, murmuring as he gathered up his things — 


<c i 


Brave lodgings for one , brave lodgings for one , 

A few feet of cold earth , when life is done; 

A stone at the head , a stone at the feet 1 , 

A rich, juicy meal for the worms to eat ; 

Rank grass over head , and damp clay around , 

Brave lodgings for one , these , in holy ground ! 

Ho! ho! ’ laughed Gabriel Grub , as he sat himself down 


Digitized by 


Google 


OF THE PICKWICK. CLUB. 3<M 

on a flat tombstone which was a favourite resting place of his; 
and drew forth his wicker bottle. ‘ A coffin at Christmas — a 
Christmas box. Ho ! ho ! ho ! ’ 

“ ‘ Ho! ho! ho ! ’ repeated a voice which sounded close behind 
him. 

“ Gabriel paused in some alarm , in the act of raising the 
wicker bottle to his lips , and looked round. The bottom of the 
oldest grave about him , was not more still and quiet , than the 
churchyard in the pale moonlight. The cold hoar frost glistened 
on the tombstones , and sparkled like rows of gems among the 
stone carvings of the old church. The snow lay hard and crisp 
upon the ground, and spread over the thickly-strewn mounds 
of earth , so white and smooth a cover, that it seemed as if corpses 
lay there , hidden only by their winding sheets. Not the faintest 
rustle broke the profound tranquillity of the solemn scene. Sound 
itself appeared to be frozen up , all was so cold and still. 

“ * It was the echoes,’ said Gabriel Grub, raising the bottle 
to his lips again. .cf 

“ ‘ It was not,’ said a deep voice. ^ 

“ Gabriel started up , and stood rooted to the spot with asto- fj. 
nishment and terror; for his eyes rested on a form which made/ * J 
his blood run cold. 

“ Seated on an upright tombstone, close to him , was a strange 
unearthly figure, whom Gabriel felt at once was no being of 
this world. His long fantastic legs which might have reached 
the ground , were cocked up, and crossed after a quaint, fan- 
tastic fashion ; his sinewy arms were bare, and his hands rested 
on his knees. On his short round body he wore a close cover- 
ing , ornamented with small slashes ; and a short cloak dangled 
at his back; the collar was cut into curious peaks, which served 
the goblin in lieu of ruff or neckerchief; and his shoes curled 
up at the toes into long points. On his head he wore a broad- 
brimmed sugar-loaf hat, garnished with a single feather. The 
hat was covered with the white frost , and the goblin looked as 
if he had sat on the same tombstone very comfortably, for two 
or three hundred years. He was sitting perfectly still ; his tongue 
was put out, as if in derision ; and he was grinning at Gabriel 
Grub with such a grin as only a goblin could call up. 

“ ‘ It was not the echoes ,’ said the goblin. 

“ Gabriel Grub was paralysed , and could make no reply. 

“ ‘ What do you do here on Christmas eve?’ said the goblin 
sternly. 

‘“I came.to dig a grave , sir,’ stammered Gabriel Grub. 

“ ‘ What man wanders among graves and churchyards on 
such a night as this ? ’ said the goblin. 

“ ‘ Gabriel Grub ! Gabriel Grub! ’ screamed a wild chorus of 


Digitized by v^ooQle 



352 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

voioesttbat seemed to fill the churchyard, Gabriel looked fear- 
fully reread — nothing was to be seen. 

** ‘"What have you got in that bottle ? ’ said the goblin. 

“ ‘Hollands, sir,’ replied the sexton , trembling more than 
ever; for he had bought it of the smugglers, and he thought 
that perhaps his questioner might be in the excise department 
of the goblins. 

Who drinks Hollands alone and in a churchyard, on such 
a night as this ? ’ said the goblin, 

“ ‘ Gabriel Grub ! Gabriel Grub ! ’ exclaimed the wild voices 
again. 

“ The goblin leered maliciously at the terrified sexton , and 
then raising his voice, exclaimed — 

“ ‘ And who , then , is our fair and lawful prize?’ 

“ To this inquiry the invisible chorus replied, in a strain that 
sounded like the voices of many choristers singing to the mighty 
swell of the old church organ — a strain that seemed borne to 
the sexton’s ears upon a gentle wind , and to die away as its soft 
breath passed onward — but the burden of the reply was still the 
same , ‘ Gabriel Grub ! Gabriel Grub ! ’ 

“ The goMflfcgrinned a broader grin than before, as he said, 
‘ Well , GRt$jel ,/what do you say to this ? ’ 

“ The sexton gasped for breath. 

‘“What do you think of this, Gabriel?’ said the goblin, 
kicking up his feet in the air on either side the tombstone , and 
looking at the turned-up points with as much complacency as if 
he had been contemplating the most fashionable pair of Wel- 
lingtons in all Bond-street. 

“‘It’s — it’s — very curious, sir,’ replied the sexton, half 
dead with fright , 4 very curious , and very pretty, but I think 
I’ll go back and finish my work , sir, if you please.’ 

“ ‘ Work ! ’ said the goblin , ‘ what work ? ’ 

“ 4 The grave , sir, making the grave ,’ stammered the sexton. 

“ 4 Oh, the grave, eh?’ said the goblin, 4 who makes graves 
at a time when all other men are merry, and takes a plea- 
sure in it?’ 

44 Again the mysterious voices replied, ‘Gabriel Grub! Ga- 
briel Grub ! ’ 

“ ‘ I’m afraid my friends want you , Gabriel ,’ said the goblin , 
thrusting his tongue further into his cheek than ever — and a 
most astonishing tongue it was — 4 I’m afraid my friends want 
you , Gabriel,’ said the goblin. 

44 4 Under favour, sir,’ replied the horror-struck sexton , 4 1 
don’t think they can, sir; they don’t know me, sir; I don’t 
think the gentlemen have ever seen me , sir.’ 

“ 4 Oh yes they have ,’ replied the goblin ; 4 we know the man 




o* 4*0® ptt*fr«fc cttjB. «as 

with thtfMkytooe ana'fflrgrtm stfcwl, that name idtH*®** 
street to-night, throwing "Ws evil- looks 4ft the ehadrwn, dnd 
grasping his burying spade the’tightfer. We knowthe nftln that 
Struck the boy in the envidus Malice of his heart, heesttse the 
boy could be merry, and he could ndt. We know him,, we 
know him.’ - ' 

“ Here the goblin gave a loud shrill laugh, that ‘the echoes 
returned twenty-fold , and throwing his legs up in the air, stood 
upon his head, or rather upon the Very point of his sugardoaf 
hat, on the narrow edge of the tombstone , from Whence he 
threw a summerset with extraordinary agility, right to the 
sexton’s feet, at which he planted himself in the attitude in 
which tailors generally sit Upon the shop-board. 

“ « I— 1— am afraid I must leave you , sir,’ said the sexton , 
making an effort to move. 

“ ‘ Leave us ! ’ said the goblin , ‘ Gabriel Grub going to leave 
us. Ho! ho! ho!’ 

“ As the goblin laughed , the sexton observed for one instant 
a brilliant illumination within the windows of the church , as if 
the whole building were lighted up; it disappeared , the organ 
pealed forth a lively air, and whole troops of goblins , the very 
counterpart of the first one, poured into the churchyard, and 
began playing at leap-frog with the tombstones , never stopping , 
for an instant to take breath, but oyering the highest among 
them , one after the other, with the most marvellous dexterity. 
The first goblin was a most astonishing leaper, and no one of the 
others could come near him ; even in the extremity of his terror, 
the sexton could not help observing , that while his friends were 
content to leap over the common-sized gravestones, the first one 
took the family vaults, iron railings and all , with as much ease 
as if they had been so many street posts. 

“ At last the game reached to a most exciting pitch ; the organ 
played quicker and quicker, and the goblins leaped faster and 
faster, coiling themselves up , rolling head oyer heels upon the 
ground , and bounding over the tombstones like foot-balls. The 
sexton’s brain whirled round with the rapidity of the motion he 
beheld , and his legs reeled beneath him , as the spirits flew before 
his eyes, when the goblin king suddenly darting towards him, 
laid his hand upon his collar, and sank with him through the 
earth. 

“ When Gabriel Grub had had time to fetch his breath, which 
the rapidity of bis descent had for the moment taken away, he 
found himself in what appeared to be a large cavern, surrounded 
on all sides by crowds of goblins , ugly and grim : in the centre 


- Digitized by Google 



354 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

of the room , on an elevated seat, was stationed his friend of the 
churchyard* and close beside him stood Gabriel Grub himself, 
without the power of motion. 

“ 4 Cold to-night ,’ said the king of the goblins , 4 very cold. A 
glass of something warm , here.’ 

44 At this command, half a dozen officious goblins, with a 
perpetual smile upon their faces , whom Gabriel Grub imagined 
to be courtiers, on that account, hastily disappeared, and pre- 
* sently returned with a goblet of liquid fire, which they presented 
to the king. 

44 4 Ah! ’ said the goblin , whose cheeks and throat were quite 
transparent, as he tossed down the flame, ‘this [warms one, 
indeed : bring a bumper of the same , for Mr. Grub.’ 

| “It was in vain for the unfortunate sexton to protest that he 
| was not in the habit of taking anything warm at night * for one of 
| the goblins held him , while another poured the blazing liquid 
down his throat, and the whole assembly screeched with 
laughter as he coughed and choked , and wiped away the tears 
which gushed plentifully from his eyes , after swallowing the 
burning draught. 

“‘And now/ said the king, fantastically poking the taper 
corner of his sugar-loaf hat into the sexton’s eye , and thereby 
occasioning him the most exquisite pain — 6 And now, show the 
man of misery and gloom a few of the pictures from our great 
storehouse.’ 

“As the goblin said this, a thick cloud which obscured the 
further end of the cavern , rolled gradually away, and disclosed 
apparently at a great distance , a small and scantily furnished , 
but neat and clean apartment. A crowd of little children were 
gathered round a bright fire, clinging to their mother’s gown, and 
gambolling round her chair. The mother occasionally rose, and 
drew aside the window-curtain as if to look for some expected 
object 5 a frugal meal was ready spread upon the table, and an 
elbow chair was placed near the fire. A knock was heard at the 
door : the mother opened it , and the children crowded round 
I her, and clapped their hands for joy, as their father entered, 
j He was wet and weary, and shook the snow from his garments, 

» as the children crowded round him , and seizing his cloak, hat , 
stick, and gloves, with busy zeal , ran with them from the room. 
Then as he sat down to his meal before the fire, the children 
climbed about his knee, and the mother sat by his side, and all 
seemed happiness and comfort. 

“ But a change came upon the view, almost imperceptibly. 
The scene was altered to a small bed-room , where the fairest 
and youngest child lay dying* the roses had fled from his cheek, 



Digitized by v^.ooQle 


OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 355 

and the light from his eye and even as the sexton looked upon < 
him with an interest he had never felt or known before , he died. ( 
His young brothers and sisters crowded round his little bed, \ 
and seized his tiny hand, so cold and heavy 5 but they shrunk j 
back from its touch , and looked with awe on his infant face : for j 
calm and tranquil as it was, and sleeping in rest and peace as 
the beautiful child seemed to be, they saw that he was dead, 
and they knew that he was an- angel looking down upon, and 
blessing them , from a bright and happy Heaven. 

44 Again the light cloud passed across the picture, and again 
the subject changed. The father and mother were old and help- 
less now, and the number of those about them was diminished 
more than half-, but content and cheerfulness sat on every face, 
and beamed in every eye , as they crowded round the fireside , 
and told and listened to old stories of earlier and bygone days. 
Slowly and peacefully the father sank into the grave, and, soon 
after, the sharer of all his cares and troubles followed him to a 
place of rest and peace. The few, who yet survived them , knelt 
by their tomb , and watered the green turf which covered it 
with their tears ; then rose and turned away, sadly . and mourn- 
fully , but not with bitter cries , or despairing lamentations , for 
they knew that they should one day meet again -, and once more 
they mixed with the busy world , and their content and cheer- 
fulness were restored. The cloud settled upon the picture , and 
concealed it from the sexton’s view. 

44 4 What do you think of that ? 9 said the goblin, turning his 
large face towards Gabriel Grub. 

4 4 Gabriel murmured out something about its being very pretty , 
and looked somewhat ashamed , as the goblin bent his fiery eyes 
upon him. 

* 44 4 You a miserable man ! ’ said the goblin , in a tone of ex- 
cessive contempt. 4 You ! ’ He appeared disposed to add more; 
but indignation choked his utterance , so he lifted up one of his 
very pliable legs, and flourishing it above his head a little, to 
insure his aim , administered a good sound kick to Gabriel Grub; 
immediately after which, all the goblins in waiting crowded 
round the wretched sexton , and kicked him without mercy, ac- 
cording to the established and invariable custom of courtiers 
upon earth, who kick whom royalty kicks, and hug whom 
royalty hugs. f 

44 4 Show him some more ,’ said the king of the goblins. ) 

44 At these words the cloud was again dispelled, and a rich and 
beautiful landscape was disclosed to view — there is just such 
another to this day, within half a mile of the old abbey town. 
The sun shone from out the clear blue sky, the water sparkled 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



' 356 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS 

beneath his rays , and the trees looked greener, and tbs flowers 
more gay, beneath his cheering influence. The water rippled 
on, with a pleasant sound, the trees rustled in the light wind 
that rounnnred among their leaves , the biFds sang upon the 
boughs, and the lark carolled on high, her welcome to the 
morning. Yes, it was morning, the bright, balmy morning of 
summer ; the minutest leaf, the smallest blade of grass , was in- 
stinct with life. The aBt crept forth to her daily toil , the but- 
terfly fluttered and basked in the warm rays of the sun ; myriads 
of insects spread their transparent wings , and revelled in their 
brief but happy existence. Man walked forth, slated with the 
scene >, and all was brightness and splendour. 

“ ‘ You a miserable man J ’ said the king of the goblins , in 
a more contemptuous tone than before. And again the king of 
the goblins gave his leg a flourish ; again it descended on the 
shoulders of the sexton % and again the attendant goblins imitated 
the example of their chief. 

1 “ Many a time the cloud went and came, and many a lesson 

j it taught to Gabriel Grub, who although his shoulders smarted 
1 with pain from the frequent applications of the goblins’ feet 
f thereunto , looked on with an interest which nothing could dimi- 
> nish. He 6aw that men who worked hard , and earned their 
scanty bread with lives of labour, were cheerful and happy ; and 
that fo the most ignorant, the sweet face of nature was a never- 
failing source of cheerfulness and joy. He saw those who had 
been delicately nurtured , and tenderly brought up , cheerful 
under privations, and superior to suffering, that would have 
crushed many of a rougher grain, because they bore within their 
own bosoms the materials of happiness , contentment and peaoe. 
He saw that women, the tenderest and most fragile of all God’s 
creatures j were the pftenest superior to sorrow, adversity, ancf 
distress ; and be saw that it was because they bore in their own 
hearts an inexhaustible well-spring of affection and deyotedness. 
f Above afl, be saw that men like himself, who snarled at the 
{ mirth and cheerfulness of others, were the foulest weeds on the 
) fair surface of the earth 5 and setting all the good of the world 
against the evil , he came to the conclusion that it was a very 
decent and respectable sort of world after all. No sooner had 
he formed it, than the cloud which had closed over the last 
picture, seemed to settle on his senses , and lull him to repose. 
One by one, the goblins feded from his sight, and as the last 
one disappeared, be Strok to sleep. 

“ The day bad broken when Gabriel Grub awoke , and found 
lumseff lying, at full length on the flat gravestone in the church- 
yard , with the wicker bottle lying empty by his side , and his 



Digitized by 


Google 


OF THE PICKWICK CIUB. 357 

coat , spade , and lantern , all well whitened by tbe last night’s 
frost, scattered on the ground. The stone on which he had first 
seen the goblin seated , stood bolt upright before him , and the 
graVe at which he bad worked, the night before, was not for off. 
At first he began to doubt the reality of his adventures ; but the 
acute pain in his shoulders , when he attempted to rise, assured 
him that the kicking of the goblins was certaidly not ideal. He 
was staggered again , by observing no traces of footsteps in the 
snow on which tbe geblins had played at leap-frog with the 
gravestones 5 but he speedily accounted for this circumstance 
when he remembered that being spirits , they would leave no 
visible impression behind them. So Gabriel Grub got on his feet 
as well as he could, for the pain in his back; and brushing the 
frost off his coat , put it on , and turned his face towards the 
town. 

“ But he was an altered man, and he could not bear the 
thought of returning to a place where his repentance would be 
scoffed at , and his reformation disbelieved. He hesitated for a 
few moments ; and then turned away to wander where he might, 
and seek his bread elsewhere. 

“ The lantern, the spade, and the wicker bottle, were found 
that day in the churchyard. There were a great many specula- 
tions about the sexton’s fate at first, but it was speedily deter- 
mined that he had been carried away by the goblins ; and there 
were not wanting some very credible witnesses who had dis- 
tinctly seen him whisked through the air on the back of a chest- 
nut horse blind of one eye, with the hind quarters of a lion , and 
the tail of a bear. At length all this was devoutly believed ; and 
the new sexton used to exhibit to the curious, for a trifling emo- 
lument , a good-sized piece of the church weathercock which 
had been accidentally kicked off by the aforesaid horse in his 
aerial flight, and picked up by himself in the churchyard, a year 
or two afterwards. 

Unfortunately these stories were somewhat disturbed by the 
unlooked-for re-appearance of Gabriel Grub himself, some ten 
years afterwards, a ragged, contented, rheumatic old man. He 
told his story to the clergyman , and also to the mayor : and in 
course of time it began to be received as a matter of history, in 
which form it has continued down to this very day. The be- 
lievers in the weathercock tale, having misplaced their confi- 
dence once, were not easily prevailed upon to part'with it again, 
so they looked as wise as they could , shrugged their shoulders, 
touched their foreheads , and murmured something about Ga- 
briel Grub’s having drunk all the Hollands, and then fallen 
asleep on the flat tombstone ; and they affected to explain what he 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 




358 POSTHUMOUS PAPERS OF THE PICKWICK CLUB. 

supposed he had witnessed in the goblins’ cavern , by saying 
that he had seen the world, and grown wiser. But this opinion, 
which was by no means a popular one at any time , gradually 
died off-, and be the matter how it may, as Gabriel Grub was 
ajllicted with rheumatism to the end of bis days, this story has 
at least one moral, if it teach no better one — and that is, that 
if a man turns shlky and drinks by himself at Christmas time, 
he may make up his mind to be not a bit the better for it, let 
the spirits be ever so good, or let them be even as many degrees 
beyond proof, as those which Gabriel Grub saw, in the goblins* 
cavern.” 

2 7. X7.3) 




CONTENTS. 


Page. 

Chapter I. — The Pickwickians *. 1 

Chap. II. — The first day’s Journey, and the first evening's Adventures; 
with their consequences . 5 

Chap. III. — A new Acquaintance. The Stroller’s Tale — A disagreeable 
Interruption ; and an unpleasant Rencontre 29 

Chap. IV. — The Stroller’s tale 31 

Chap. V. — A Field-day and Bivouac — More new Friends ; and an Invi- 
tation to the Country 40 

Chap. VI. — A short one — showing, among other matters, how Mr. Pick- 
wick undertook to drive, and Mr. Winkle to ride ; and how they both 
did it 50 

Chap. VII. — An old-fashioned Card Party — The Clergyman’s Verses — 

The Story of the Convict’s Return 59 

Chap. VIII. — How Mr. Winkle, instead of shooting at the Pigeon and 
killing the Crow, shot at the Crow and wounded the Pigeon ; how the 
Dingley Dell Cricket Club played all Muggleton , and how all Muggleton 
dined at the Dingley Dell expense : with other interesting and instruc- 
tive matters 73 

Chap. IX. — Strongly illustrative of the Position, that the course of true 
love is not a Railway « 85 

Chap. X. — A Discovery and a Chase — 97 

Chap. XI. — Clearing up all Doubts (if any existed) of the Disinterested- 
ness of Mr. Jingle’s Character , 105 

Chap. XII. — Involving another Journey, and an Antiquarian Discovery. 
Recording Mr. Pickwick’s determination to be present at an Election ; 
and containing a Manuscript of the old Clergyman’s 118 

Chap. XIII. — Descriptive of a very important Proceeding on the part of 
Mr. Pickwick ; no less an epoch in his Life than in this History 134 

Chap. XIV. — Some Account of Eatanswill ; of the state of Parties therein; 
and of the Election of a Member to serve in Parliament for that ancient, 
loyal, and patriotic Borough 139 

Chap. XV. — Comprising a brief Description of the Company at the Pea- 
cock assembled; and a Tale told by a Bagman 155 

Chap. XVI. — In which is given a faithful Portraiture of two distinguished 
Persons ; and an accurate description of a Public Breakfast in their House 
and Grounds : which Public Breakfast leads to the Recognition of an old 
Acquaintance, and the commencement of another Chapter 171 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 



360 


CONTENTS. 


Page. 


■6 ° 

Chap. XVII. — Too fiill of Adventure to be briefly described 183 

Chap. XYIII. — Showing that an Attack of Rheumatism , in some cases, 
acts as a Quickener to inventive Genius 201 

Chap. XIX. — Briefly illustrative of two Points: — First, the Power of 
Hysterics, and, Secondly, the Force of Circumstances 208 

Chap. XX. — A pleasant Day, with an unpleasant Termination 218 

Chap. XXL — Showing how Dodson and Fogg were Men of Business, and 
their Clerks Men of Pleasure; and how an affecting Interview took place 
between Mr. Weller and his long-lost Parent; showing also, what Choice 


Spirits assembled at the Magpie and Stump, and what a capital Chapter 
the next onfe will be $31 

Chap. XXII. — In which the old Man launshes forth into his favourite 
theme , and relates a Story about a queer Client. 24'6 

Chap. XXIII. — Mr. Pickwick Journeys to Ipstf ch » and meets with U 
romantic Adventure with a middle-aged Lady in Yellow Curl Papers. . . 261 

Chap. XXIY. — In which Mr. Samhel Weller begins to devote his energies 


to the Return Match between Himself and Mr. Trotter 276 

« 

Chap. XXY. — Wherein Mr. Peter Magnus grows jealous , and the middle- 
aged lady apprehensive , which brings the Pickwickians within the Grasp 
of the Law 283 

Chap. XXYI. — Showing , among a variety of pleasant matters , how ma- 
jestic and impartial Mr. Nupkins was; and how Mr. Weller returned 
Mr. Job Trotter's Shuttlecock, as heavily as it came. With another mat- 
ter, which will be found in its place. 297 

Chap. XXYII. — Which contains a brief account of the Progress of the 
Action of Bard ell against Pickwick 3 14 

Chap. XXYIII. — Samuel Weller makes a Pilgrimage to Dorking, and 
beholds his Mother-in-law. 320 

Chap. XXIX. — A good-humoured Christmas Chapter, containing an Ac- 
count of a Wedding , and some other Sports beside , which , although in 
their Way even as good customs as Marriage itself, are not quite sd 
religiously kept up, in these degenerate times 329 

Chap. XXX. — The Story of the Goblins who stole a Sexton 349 



Digitized by 


Google 






Digitized by v^.ooQle 


Digitized by v^.ooQle 







