ABNER 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2022 with funding from 
Kahle/Austin Foundation 


https://archive.org/details/inoldplantationd0000paul 


« ¢ SANNINI ON SVH NOA LYd NOSVaY 2 Oe ar NT 
S.NGIa4t AO SHOVA Ad Lag “NIUAON AAVH NOA AVI . 


” 


a 74% 


In Old 
Wlantation Days 


By 
Paul Laurence Dunbar 


Author of ‘¢ Lyrics of Lowly Life,’’ 
*¢ Poems of Cabin and Field,’” 
** Lyrics of the Hearthside,’’ etc. 


ILLUSTRATED 


NEW YORK 
DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY 
1903 


Copyright, 1903, by Dodd, Mead and Company 


Copyright, 1899, 1900, 1901, 1902, by 
The Curtis Publishing Company 


Copyright, 1900, by P. F. Collier & Son 


Published September, 1903 


HILL AND LEONARD 
NEW YORK CITY, U.S. A. 


To 
GEORGE HORACE LORIMER 
Out of whose suggestion these 
stories were born, and by whose kindness 
they first saw the light. 


B11386 
ST. MARY'S UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 
LSAN ANTONIO, TEXAS 


mat (oa 


a i ‘7 — 
oe ia Pe Si A 
cy ine 


CONTENTS 


Page 
Punt empess4 MUmph es 1a5 <x asm ote. i ee 
pune Lempe s (Revenge saa caihc 50)“ 53 ay a) ial ee 
‘Bhey Walls) of Jericho: (.- = pea Re ven i 
How Brother Parker Fell from eae jek eS 
ihe ‘Trousers: “he, SORE OCH ae eS) 
The Last Fiddling of Mordanat s a ob Me er OS 
AsSupper by Proxy. .. Gai dhe asgalee etree ane 7k 
The Trouble About Sophy sie tas ba ot Gere Oo 
Mirenarepy supper Gift 4° so 55 al) aes OS 
Asu-cakeriannah and her Ben ~.-. 0 «ss 9s eS 
Piety beaed MICK... ee sk ee te ah azo 
wene Conjiring Contest: uo x. 4 Go we ux 16 136 
anaya im sconjuresScate, «= as She! i) Uae a. LAB 
ber Memory of Marthas. =. s: «: Bo a. oe, 01S? 
Wynosotandetor the Gods, a ee OL 
ee AC Ve OD Nen oeateune latte hice atl 4 fe TAR 
mMicesed) Deceit. os Virus eer mien f lo: 
The Brief Cure of Aunt cae Beare: es She al Woe eee 
piceotaprony@oachinagw 6" Fe gt a ay 4 ON 
Bi Houleastere Weddings: 4) steele) ols ls eo 
The Finding of Martha . . Beth i guieee 0 
The Defection of Maria Ann Gibbs ee 2 EO 
Auujudgment-Or Pans oats) ww Gite, te ee 
Silent Sam’el . . Rae es oe ge 


The Way Bet Wome i a URC) CAME ee mee 1515 


bce 


, Fon aaly 
ah © xe | 
VaR 


In Old Plantation Days 
we 
AUNT TEMPE’S TRIUMPH. 


It was in the glow of an April evening when 
Aunt Tempe came out on the veranda to hold a 
conference with her master, Stuart Mordaunt. 
She had evidently been turning some things over 
in her mind. 

For months there had been talk on the planta- 
tion, but nobody knew the inside of what was 
going on quite so well as she, for was she not 
Miss Eliza’s mammy? Had she not cared for 
her every day of her life, from her birth until 
now, and was she not still her own child, her 
“Lammy ?” 

Indeed, at first she had entirely opposed the 
marriage of her young mistress to anybody, and 
had discouraged the attentions of young Stone 
Daniels when she thought he was ‘“‘spa’kin’ 
roun’”’; but when Miss Eliza laid her head on 
her breast and blushingly told her all about it 
she surrendered. And the young mistress seemed 


In Old Plantation Days 


as happy over mammy’s consent as she had been 
over her father’s blessing. Mammy knew all the 
traditions of the section, and the histories of all 
the families thereabouts, and for her to set the 
seal of approval upon young Daniels was the 
final glory. 

The preparations for the great wedding had 
gone on merrily. There was only a little time 
now before the auspicious day. Aunt Tempe, 
chief authority and owner-in-general, had been 
as busily engaged as any one. As the,time had 
come nearer and nearer, though, her trouble had 
visibly increased, and it was the culmination of 
it which brought her hobbling out to chat with 
her master on that April evening. It must have 
been Maid Doshy that told her about the beauti- 
ful ceremony of giving away the bride, and de- 
scribed to her what a figure “Ol’ Mas’ ”’ would 
make on the occasion, but it rankled in her mind, 
and she had thoughts of her own on the subject. 

“Look hyeah, Mas’ Stua’t,”’ she said, as she 
settled down on the veranda step at his feet; “I 
done come out hyeah to ’spute wid you.” 

“Well, Aunt Tempe,” said Mordaunt plac- 
idly, “it won’t be the first time; you’ve been 
doing that for many years. The fact is, half the 


2 


Aunt Tempe’s Triumph 


time I don’t know who’s running this plantation, 
you or I. You boss the whole household round, 
and “‘the quarters’? mind you better than they do 
the preacher. Plague take my buttons if I don’t 
think they’re afraid you'll conjure them!” 

‘“Conju’! Who conju’! Me conju’? Wha’s 
de mattah wid you, Mas’ Stua’t? You know I 
ain’t long haided. Ef I had ’a’ been, you know 
I'd ’a’ wo’ked my roots long ’fo’ now on ol’ 
Lishy, we’en he tuk up wid dat No’ton ooman.” 
This had happened twenty-five years before, but 
Stuart Mordaunt knew that it was still a sore 
subject with the old woman—this desertion by 
her husband—so he did not pursue the unpleas- 
ant matter any further. 

“Well, what are you going to ‘’spute’ with 
me about, Tempe? Ain’t I running the planta- 
tion right? Or ain’t your mistress behaving her- 
self as she ought to?” 

“T do wish you’d let me talk; you des’ keep 
a-jokin’ an’ a runnin’ on so dat a body cain’t git 
in a wo'd aigeways.”’ 

“Well, go on.” 

“Now you know dat Miss ’Liza gwine ma’y ?” 

“Yes, she has told me about it, though I sup- 
pose she asked your consent first.” 

3 


‘ 


In Old Plantation Days 


‘‘Nemmine dat, nemmine dat, you hyeah me. 
Miss ’Liza gwine ma’y.”’ 

“Yes, unless young Daniels runs off, or sees a 
girl he likes better.” 

“Sees a gal he lak’ bettah! Run off! Wha’s 
de mattah wid you?” 

The master laughed cheerily, and the old 
woman went on. 

“Now, we all’s gwineter gin huh a big wed- 
din’, des’ lak my baby oughter have.” 

“Of course, what else do you expect? You 
don’t suppose I’m going to have her ‘jump over 
the broom’ with him, do you?” 

“Now, you listen to me: we’s gwineter have 
all de doin’s dat go ‘long wid a weddin’, ain’t 
we?” 

Stuart Mordaunt struck his fist on the arm of 
his chair and said: 

“We're going to have all that the greatness 
of the occasion demands when a Mordaunt 
marries.” 

“Da’s right, da’s right. She gwineter have 
de o’ange wreaf an’ de ring?” 

“That’s part of it.” 

‘An’ she gwineter be gin’ erway in right 
style?” asked Aunt Tempe anxiously. 

4 


Aunt Tempe’s Triumph 


“To be sure.” 

Aunt Tempe turned her sharp black eyes on 
her master and shot forth her next question with 
sudden force and abruptness. 

“Now, whut I wanter know, who gwineter gin 
huh erway ?” 

Stuart Mordaunt straightened himself up in 
his chair with a motion of sudden surprise and 
exclaimed : 

“Why, Tempe, what the—what do you 
mean ?” 

“I mean des’ whut I say, da’s whut I mean. 
I wanter know who gwineter gin my Miss ’Liza 
erway?” 

“Who should give her away?” 

The old woman folded her hands calmly 
across her neckerchief and made answer: ‘‘Da’s 
des’ de questun.”’ 

“Why, I’m going to give my daughter away, 
of course.” 

“You gwineter gin yo’ darter erway, huh, is 
you ?”’ Aunt Tempe questioned slowly. 

The tone was so full of contempt that her 
master turned a surprised look upon her face. 
She got up, put her hands behind her in an atti- 

5 


In Old Plantation Days 


tude of defiance, and stood there looking at him, 
as he sat viciously biting the end of his cigar. 

“You ‘lows to gin huh erway, does you?” 

‘Why, Tempe, what the—who should give 
her away?” 

“You ‘lows to gin huh erway, I say?” 

‘““Most assuredly I do,” he answered angrily. 

The old woman moved up a step higher on the 
porch and asked in an intense voice: 

“Whut business you got givin’ my chile 
erway? Huccome you got de right to gin Miss 
*Liza to anybody?” 

“Why—why—Tempe!”’ 

“Who is you?” exclaimed Tempe. “Who 
raise up dat chile? Who nuss huh th’oo de colic 
w’en she cried all night, an’ she was so peakid 
you didn’t know w’en you gwine lay huh erway? 
Huh? Who do dat? Who raise you up, an’ 
tek keer 0’ you, w’en yo’ ol’ mammy die, an’ you 
wa’n’t able even to keep erway f’om de bee-trees ? 
Huh? Who do dat? You gin huh erway! 
You gin huh erway! Da’s my chile, Mas’ Stua’t 
Mo’de’nt, an’ ef anybody gin huh erway at de 
weddin’, d’ ain’t nobody gwine do it but ol’ 
Tempe huhself. You hyeah me?” 

“But, Tempe, Tempe!” said the master, “that 

6 


Aunt Tempe’s Triumph 


wouldn’t be proper. You can’t give your young 
mistress away.” 

‘“P’opah er whut not, I de only one whut got 
de right, an’ I see ’bout dat!” 

Mordaunt forgot that he was talking to a 
servant, and sprang to his feet. 

“See about it! See about it!” he cried, “T’'ll 
let you know that I can give my own daughter 
away when she marries. You must think you 
own this whole plantation, and all the white 
folks and niggers on it.” 

Aunt Tempe came up on the porch and 
curtsied to her master. 

‘‘Nemmine, Mas’ Stua’t,” she said; “‘nem- 
mine.”’ Her eyes were full of tears, and her 
voice was trembling. “Hit all right, hit all 
right. I ‘longs to you, but Miss ’Liza, she my 
chile.” Her voice rose again in a defiant ring, 
and lost its pathos as she exclaimed, “I show you 
who got de right to gin my chile erway!” And 
shaking her turbaned head, she went back into 
the house mumbling to herself. 

“Well!” said Stuart Mordaunt. “Tl be 
blessed!” He might have used a stronger term, 
but just then the black-coated figure of the rector 
came round the corner of the veranda. 

7 


+h 


In Old Plantation Days 


“How are you, how are you, sir!” said the 
Rev. Mr. Davis jocosely. ‘Are you the man 
who owns this plantation?” 

Mordaunt hurled his cigar down the path, and 
replied grimly: 

“T don’t know; I used to think so.” 

Meanwhile Aunt Tempe had gone into the 
house to tell her troubles to her young mistress. 
She and her Miss Eliza were mutually the bear- 
ers of each other’s burdens on all occasions. She 
told her story, and laid her case before the bride- 
to-be. 

‘‘Now you know, baby,” she said, “‘ef anybody 
got de right to gin you erway, ’tain’t nobody but 
ies 

“Yes, yes, mammy,” said the young woman 
consolingly; “they sha’n’t slight you, that they 
sha’n’t.” 

‘No, indeed; I don’t ’tend to be slighted.” 

“Tl tell you what I’ll do, mammy,” said Miss 
Eliza; “even if you can’t give me away, you'll 
be where Doshy and Dinah and none of the rest 
can be.” 

““Whah dat, chile?” 

“Why, before the ceremony I’ll hide you 

8 


b] 


Aunt Tempe’s Triumph 


under the portieres right back of where we’re 
going to stand in the drawing-room.” 

‘An’ I cain’t gin you erway, baby?” said the 
old woman sadly. 

“We'll see about that, mammy; you know 
nobody ever knows what’s going to happen.” 

The girl was comforting the old woman’s dis- 
tresses as mammy in the years gone by had 
quieted her childish fears. It was a putting off 
until to-morrow of the evils that seemed present 
to-day. 

Aunt Tempe went away seemingly satisfied, 
but she thought deeply, and later she visited old 
Brother Parker, who used to know a servant in a 
preacher’s family, and they talked long and 
earnestly together one whole evening. 

Doshy saw them as they separated, and cried 
in derision: 

“Look hyeah, Aunt Tempe, whut you an’ ol’ 
Brothah Pahkah codgin’ erbout so long? ’Spec’ 
fus’ thing we knows we be gittin’ slippahs an’ 
wreafs fu you, an’ you’ll.be follerin’ Miss ’Liza’s 
*zample!”’ 

“uh-uh, chile,” Aunt Tempe answered, “I 
ain’t thinkin’ nothin’ ’bout may’in’, case I’s al’, 
but la, chile, I ol’ in de haid, too!” 

9 


In Old Plantation Days 


The preparations for the wedding were com- 
pleted, and the time arrived. All the elite of 
the surrounding country were present. Mammy 
was allowed to put the last touches, insignificant 
though they were, to the bride’s costume. She 
wept copiously over her child, but with not so 
much absorption as not to be alert when Miss 
Eliza took her down and slipped her behind the 
heavy portieres. 

The organ pealed its march; the ceremony 
began and proceeded. The responses of the 
groom were strong, and those of the bride timid, 
but decisive and clear. Above all rose the res- 
onant voice of the rector. Stuart Mordaunt had 
gathered himself together and straightened his 
shoulders and stepped forward at the words, 
“Who giveth this woman,”’ when suddenly the 
portieres behind the bridal party were thrown 
asunder, and the ample form of Aunt Tempe 
appeared. The whole assemblage was thunder- 
struck. The minister paused, Mordaunt stood 
transfixed; a hush fell upon all of them, which 
was broken by the old woman’s stentorian voice 
crying: 

“T does! Dat’s who! I gins my baby erway!” 

For an instant no one spoke; some of the older 


Io 


Aunt Tempe’s Triumph 


ladies wiped tears from their eyes, and Stuart 
Mordaunt bowed and resumed his place beside 
his daughter. The clergyman took up the cere- 
mony where he had left off, and the marriage 
was finished without any turther interruption. 

When it was all over, neither the father, the 
mother, the proud groom, nor the blushing bride 
had one word of reproach for mammy, for no 
one doubted that her giving away and her bless- 
ing were as effectual and fervent as those of the 
nearest relative could have been. 

And Aunt Tempe chuckled as she went her 
way. “I showed ’em. I showed ’em.” 


II 


AUNT TEMPE’S REVENGE. 


Laramie Belle—why she was Laramie Belle 
no one could ever make out—Laramie Belle had 
astonished the whole plantation. She came of 
stock that was prone to perpetrating surprises, 
and she did credit to her blood and breeding. 
When she was only two weeks old the wiseacres 
had said that no good could ever come to so out- 
rageously a named child. Aunt Mandy had 
quite expressed the opinion of every one, when 
she said: ‘Why, ef de chile had been named a 
puoh Bible name er a puoh devil name, she 
mought a’ mounted to somep’n’, but dat aih con- 
traption, Laramie Belle, ain’t one ner ’tothah. 
She done doomed a’ready.”” And here was Lar- 
amie Belle after eighteen years of a rather quiet 
life, getting ready to fulfill all the adverse 
prophecies. 

There were, perhaps, two elements in the mat- 
ter that made the Mordaunt plantation look 
upon it with less leniency even than usual. Of 
course, it was the unwritten law of the little com- 
munity that alliances should not be contracted 


12 


Aunt Tempe’s Revenge 


with people off the estate. But even they knew 
that love must go where it will, and a certain lati- 
tude might have been allowed the culprit had she 
not been guilty of another heresy that made her 
crime blacker. Incredible as it may seem, at the 
very time that Tom Norton began bestowing his 
impudent attentions upon her, Julius, the coach- 
man, had also deigned to look at her with favor. 
For her to give the preference to the former was 
an offence not to be overlooked nor condoned. 
By so doing, she not only lost a golden matri- 
monial opportunity, but belittled the value of her 
own people. 

There was another feeling that entered into 
the trouble, too, a vague, almost shadowy dis- 
like to the man upon whom Laramie Belle had 
placed her affections. Although only a tradition 
to the younger servants, the memory was still 
vivid in the minds of the older heads of Aunt 
Tempe’s desertion by her husband, when he took 
up with “the Norton woman.” They remem- 
bered how Tempe, then a spirited, lively woman, 
had mourned and refused to be comforted, and 
they could not forget the bravery with which she 
had consented that Stuart Mordaunt should 
transfer her husband to Master Norton, in order 

aA 


In Old Plantation Days 


that he might be with his new wife. She had 
mourned for weeks, yes, for months, and no one 
else had ever come into her heart. Was it not 
enough that this suffering had come to a Mor- 
daunt through this Norton wench, without this 
man, this son of her and her stolen mate, taking 
away one of the plantation’s buds of promise ? 

They talked much to Laramie Belle, but she 
was not a girl of many words, and only held her 
head down and made imaginary lines with her 
foot as she listened. She would not talk to them 
about it, but neither would she give up Tom and 
encourage Julius. 

There were those who believed that she was 
encouraged in her stubborness by her mother, 
that mother who had closed her ears to all advice, 
remonstrance, and prophecy when warned as to 
the naming of her baby. They were right, too, 
for Lucy did uphold her daughter’s quiet inde- 
pendence. Indeed, there was a streak of strange- 
ness in both of them that, in spite of the younger 
woman’s popularity, placed them, as it were, in a 
position apart. 

“You right, honey,” said her mother to her, 
“ef you loves Tom No’ton you tek up wid him; 
don’ keer whut de res’ says. Yo’ got to live wid 

14 


’ 


Aunt Tempe’s Revenge 


him, yo’ got to do his cookin’ an’ washin’ an’ 
i’nin’, an’ all you got to do is to git Mas’ Stua’t 
to say yes to you.” 

No one argued with Lucy, whatever they 
might say to her daughter. About the older 
woman there was a spirit fierce and free that 
would not be gainsaid. There was something of 
the wild nerve of African forests about her that 
had not yet been driven out by the hard hand of 
slavery, nor yet smoothed down by the velvet 
glove of irresponsibility. The essence of this, 
albeit subdued, refined, diluted, perhaps, was in 
her daughter, and that was why she kept her way 
in spite of all opposition. 

As for Tom Norton, opposition only made 
him more determined, and nothing did him more 
good than to laugh in the face of Julius as he 
was leaving the Mordaunt place after a pleasant 
visit with Laramie. 

As promiscuous visiting between the planta- 
tions was forbidden, Tom had had the good 
sense to secure both his master’s and Stuart Mor- 
dauni’s consent, the latter’s reluctantly given to 
these excursions. On the principle, however, that 
he who is given much may with safety take more, 
he often overstepped the bound and went to see 

T5 


In Old Plantation Days 


his sweetheart when the permission was wanting. 
Julius found this out and determined to admin- 
ister a severe lesson to his rival on the first occa- 
sion that he found him within his domain with- 
out his master’s permission. So thinking, he laid 
his plans carefully, the first of them being to gain 
a friend and informant on the Norton place. 
This he succeeded in doing, and then, after con- 
fiding in a couple of trusted friends, he lay in 
wait for his unfortunate rival. He had a stout 
hickory stick in his hand, and he and his friends 
were stationed at short intervals of space along 
the road which Tom must cross to visit Laramie 
Belle. 

It was a moonlit night. The watchers by the 
roadside heard the sound of his footsteps as their 
victim approached. But, with ghoulish satisfac- 
tion, they let him pass on. It was not now that 
they wanted him, but when he came back. Then 
they would have the fun of whipping him to his 
very gate, and he would not dare to tell. They 
possessed their souls in patience, and waited, 
chuckling ever and anon at the prospect as the 
first hour passed. They yawned more and 
chuckled less through the second hour. During 
the third, the yawns held exclusive sway. He 

16 


Aunt Tempe’s Revenge 


was staying particularly late that night. It was 
in the gray dawn that, unsatisfied, sleepy, and 
angry, they took their way home. Their heads 
seemed scarcely to have touched the pillows when 
the horns and bells sounded the rising hour. Oh, 
misery! They had missed Tom, too. 

Julius could not understand it. It was very 
simple, though. Man proposes, but woman ex- 
poses, and he had not learned to beware of a 
friend who had a wife. So, his secret had leaked 
out. Laramie Belle had had a chance to warn 
Tom, and, going by another road, he had been 
in bed and snoring when his watchers were wear- 
ily waiting for him by the roadside. 

Even for the coachman’s friends, the story was 
too good to keep, and before long big house and 
quarters were laughing to their hearts’ content. 

The unwelcome suitor was doubly unfortu- 
nate, however, for his action precipitated the 
result which he was so anxious to prevent. See- 
ing himself in danger of being the constant vic- 
tim of intrigue and molestation, Tom Norton 
determined to press his suit and bring matters to 
a close. With this end in view he sought his 
master and laid the case before him, begging for 
his intercession. Norton, the master, promised 

17 


In Old Plantation Days 


to visit Stuart Mordaunt and talk the matter 
over with him. 

He did so. He laid the case before Mor- 
daunt plainly and clearly. A negro on his plan- 
tation was in love with one of his host’s maids. 
What was to be done about it? 

“Well, it’s this way, Norton,” said Mordaunt 
frankly. “You know I never have countenanced 
this mating of servants off the plantation. It’s 
only happened once, and you know how that 


was.” 


“T know, but, Mr. Mordaunt, Tom likes that 
wench, and if he don’t get her it'll make a bad 
darky out of him, that’s all; and he’ll be a trouble 
to your plantation as well as to mine.” 

“Oh, I can answer as to mine.” 

“Perhaps, but there’s no telling what influence 
he might have over your people, and that’s worth 
looking into.” 

‘You're on the wrong road to accomplish your 
end with me, Norton.” 

“But you don’t understand; I’m not talking 
for myself, but for the happiness of a boy that I 
like.” 

“You know how I handled a similar case.” 

18 


Aunt Tempe’s Revenge 


“Yes; but I’m a poorer man than you, and I— 
well, I can’t afford to be generous.” 

Mordaunt laughed coldly. ‘‘Well,” he said, 
“T don’t like the stock of that boy Tom. You 
know how his father treated Tempe, and—oh, 
well, Norton, see me again, I’m not in the mood 
to discuss this matter now,” and he rose to dis- 
miss his visitor. 

“Tl sell Tom cheap,” said Norton. 

“In spite of your deep feeling for him?” 

“My deep feeling for him prompts me to help 
him to happiness.” 

“Very considerate of you, Norton, but I’m not 
buying or selling darkies. Good-day.” 

Norton ground his teeth as he walked away. 
“That proud fool despises me,’’ he murmured 
angrily, “but either he shall buy Tom or that 
nigger shall make him more than his money’s 
worth of trouble.” 

Stuart Mordaunt went away from the inter- 
view with his neighbor with a sneer on his lips. 
He despised Aldberry Norton, not because he 
was a poorer man, but because he was a man 
with no principle. Once an overseer, now a 
small owner, he brought the manners of the 
lower position to the higher one. 

19 


In Old Plantation Days 


“I’d buy Tom,” he said to himself, “just to 
satisfy Laramie Belle, if it wasn’t against my 
principle.” 

When the plantation, through some mysteri- 
ous intelligence, heard how Tom’s suit fared, it 
was exultant. After all, the flower of their girls 
was not to go away to mate with an inferior. 
They ceased to laugh at Julius behind his back. 
But there is no accounting for the ways of 
women, and at this time Laramie Belle ceased 
speaking to him—so, setting one off against the 
other, the poor coachman had little to pride him- 
self upon. 

The girl now had fewer words than ever. Her 
smiles, too, were fewer, and she was often in 
tears. Seeing her thus, the fierceness in her 
mother’s face and manner increased until it grew 
to be a settled fact that one who cared for his 
life was not to bother Laramie Belle nor Lucy. 

During all the trouble, Aunt Tempe had list- 


ened and looked on, unmoved. Every one had 
expected her to take a very decided part against 


the welcome suitor, the son of her old rival and 
her defaulting husband; but she had not done so. 
She had stood aloof until this crisis came. Even 
now, she was strangely subdued. Only she cast 


20 


Aunt Tempe’s Revenge 


inquiring glances at Laramie Belle’s long, tear- 
saddened face whenever she passed her. Day 
by day she saw how the girl faded, and then 
came the wrath of the plantation upon her. 
When they saw that she would not yield, they 
cast her off. They would not associate with her, 
nor speak to her. She was none of theirs. Let 
her find her friends over at Norton’s, they said. 
They laughed at her and tossed their heads in 
her face, and she went her way silent but weep- 
ing. Lucy’s eyes grew fierce. Something 
strange, foreign, even wild within her seemed to 
rear itself and call for release. But she held 
herself as if saying, “A little while yet.” 

The day came, however, when Aunt Tempe 
could stand Laramie Belle’s sad face no longer. 
It may have been the influence of Parker’s words 
as he told of the command to do good to “‘dem 
dat spitefully use you,” or it may have been the 
strong promptings of her own good heart that 
drove Tempe to seek her master out. 

“Well, Tempe,’’ said Mordaunt, as he saw 
that she had settled herself for a talk with him, 
“what now?” 

“Tt’s des’ anothah one o’ my ’sputes,” said 


21 


In Old Plantation Days 


Tempe, with an embarrassment entirely new to 
her. 

“Well, what’s coming now?” 

“Mas’ Stua’t, I’s an’ ol’ fool, dat’s what I is.” 

‘Ah, Tempe, have you found that out? Then 
you begin to be wise. It’s wonderful how as you 
and I get old we both arrive at the same con- 
clusions.” 

“T aint jokin’, Mas’ Stua’t. I’s mighty 
anxious. I been thinkin’ ’bout Tawm an’ La’- 
amie Belle.” 

“Now, Tempe 

“Hol’ on, Mas’. Yo’ know de reason I got 
some right to think bout dem two. Mas’ Stua’t, 
my ol’ man didn’ do me right to leave me an’ tek 
up wid anothah ’ooman.” 

“He was a hound.” 

“Look-a-hyeah, whut you talkin’ ’bout? You 
heish. I was a gwine ‘long to say dat my man 
didn’ treat me right, but sence it’s done, it’s done, 
an’ de only way to do is to mek de bes’ of it.” 

“You’ve been doing that for a good many 
years.” 

“Yes, but it wasn’t wid my willin’ hea’t. 
Brothah Pahkah say ’dough dat we mus’ do good 
to dem what spitefully use us.” 


9 


22 


Aunt Tempe’s Revenge 


“What are you driving at, Tempe?” 

‘Mas’ Stua’t, sence Tawm No’ton, he my ol’ 
man’s boy, don’t you reckon I’s some kin’ of a 
step-mammy to him?” 

Stuart Mordaunt could not repress a chuckle 
as he answered, “Well, I can’t just figure out any 
such kinship.” 

‘‘T don’ keer whut yo’ figgers out. Hit’s got 
to be so ’cause I feels it.” 

‘It must be so, then.” 

“Well, de plantation done cas’ La’amie Belle 
out ‘cause she love Tawm, an’ she cryin’ huh 
eyes out. Tawm, he feel moughty bad ’bout it.” 

“Well?” 

‘Mas’ Stua’t, let ’em ma’y.” 

“Tempe, you know I object to the servants 
marrying off the plantation.” 

“T know, but—” 

“And you know that I can’t buy Tom.” 

‘““Won’t you, des’ dis time?” 

“No, I won’t; I’m not a nigger trader, and I 
won’t have any one making me one. You let 
me alone, Tempe, and don’t concern yourself in 
this business.”’ 

“Dey des two po’ chillen, Mas’ Stua’t.” 

“T don’t care if they are. I won't have any- 

23 


In Old Plantation Days 


thing to do with it, I tell you. I won’t have my 
people marrying with Norton’s, and if he can’t 
make a fair exchange for the man I gave him, 
why, Tom and Laramie Belle will have to give 
each other up, that’s all.” 

Aunt Tempe said no more, but went tearfully 
away, but out of the corner of her eye she saw 
her master pacing up and down long after she 
had left him, and she had the satisfaction of 
knowing he was uneasy. 

‘‘Confound Tempe,’ Mordaunt was saying. 
‘“Why can’t she let me alone? Just as I quiet my 
conscience, here she comes and knocks everything 
into a cocked hat. I won’t buy Tom. I won't, 
that’s all there is about it. Her stepson, in- 
deed!’ He tried to laugh, but it ended lamely. 
“Confound Tempe,” he repeated. 

He was troubled for two or three days, and 
then with a very sheepish expression he went to 
Tempe’s cabin. 

“Tempe,” he said, ‘‘you’ve served me long 
and faithfully, and I’ve been thinking about 
making you a present for some time.” 

“La, Mas’ Stua’t, wha’s de mattah wid you?” 

“You hush up. Here’s some money, you can 

24 


Aunt Tempe’s Revenge 


do with it as you please,” and he thrust a roll of 
bills into her hand. 

“W’y, Mas’ Stua’t Mo’da’nt, is you clean 
loony? What is I gwine to do wid all dis 
money ?” 

“Throw it in the fire, confound you, if you 
haven’t got sense enough to know what use to 
put it to!” Stuart Mordaunt shouted, as he 
turned away. Then the light dawned on Aunt 
Tempe, and she sank to her knees with a prayer 
of thanks. 

It took but a short time for her to have a less 
scrupulous man buy Tom for her, and then with 
a solemnity as great as his own, she presented 
him to her master, who received him, as he said, 
in the spirit in which he was given. 

Lucy and Laramie Belle were present at the 
ceremony. ‘The fierce light had died out of 
Lucy’s eyes, and Laramie’s face was aglow. 
When it was all over, Julius shook hands with 
Tom as an acknowledgment of defeat, and that 
gave the cue to the rest of the plantation, who 
forgot at once all its animosities against the new 
fellow-servant. But there were some things 
which the author of all this good could not for- 
get, and on the night of the wedding, when the 

25 


In Old Plantation Days 


others rejoiced, Aunt Tempe wept and mur- 
mured: ‘‘He might ’a’ been mine, he might ’a’ 
been mine.” 


26 


THE WALLS OF JERICHO: 


Parker was sitting alone under the shade of a 
locust tree at the edge of a field. His head was 
bent and he was deep in thought. Every now and 
then there floated to him the sound of vociferous 
singing, and occasionally above the music rose 
the cry of some shouting brother or sister. But 
he remained in his attitude of meditation as if the 
singing and the cries meant nothing to him. 

They did, however, mean much, and, despite 
his outward impassiveness, his heart was in a 
tumult of wounded pride and resentment. He 
had always been so faithful to his flock, constant 
in attendance and careful of their welfare. Now 
it was very hard, at the first call of the stranger 
to have them leave their old pastor and crowd to 
the new exhorter. 

It was nearly a week before that a free negro 
had got permission to hold meetings in the wood 
adjoining the Mordaunt estate. He had invited 
the negroes of the surrounding plantations to 
come and bring their baskets with them that they 
might serve the body while they saved the soul. 
By ones and twos Parker had seen his congrega- 

27 


In Old Plantation Days 


tion drop away from him until now, in the cabin 
meeting house where he held forth, only a few 
retainers, such as Mandy and Dinah and some of 
the older ones on the plantation, were present to 
hear him. It grieved his heart, for he had been 
with his flock in sickness and in distress, in sor- 
row and in trouble, but now, at the first approach 
of the rival they could and did desert him. He 
felt it the more keenly because he knew just how 
powerful this man Johnson was. He was loud- 
voiced and theatrical, and the fact that he invited 
all to bring their baskets gave his scheme added 
influence; for his congregations flocked to the 
meetings as to a holy picnic. It was seldom that 
they were thus able to satisfy both the spiritual 
and material longings at the same time. 

Parker had gone once to the meeting and had 
hung unobserved on the edge of the crowd; then 
he saw by what power the preacher held the peo- 
ple. Every night, at the very height of the serv- 
ice, he would command the baskets to be opened 
and the people, following the example of the 
children of Israel, to march, munching their 
food, round and round the inclosure, as their 
Biblical archetypes had marched around the 
walls of Jericho. Parker looked on and smiled 

28 


The Walls of Jericho 


grimly. He knew, and the sensational revivalist 
knew, that there were no walls there to tumble 
down, and that the spiritual significance of the 
performance was entirely lost upon the people. 
Whatever may be said of the Mordaunt planta- 
tion exhorter, he was at least no hypocrite, and 
he saw clearly that his rival gave to the emo- 
tional negroes a breathing chance and opportun- 
ity to eat and a way to indulge their dancing pro- 
clivities by marching trippingly to a spirited tune. 

He went away in disgust and anger, but 
thoughts deeper than either burned within him. 
He was thinking some such thoughts now as he 
sat there on the edge of the field listening to the 
noise of the basket meeting. It was unfortunate 
for his peace of mind that while he sat there ab- 
sorbed in resentful musings two of the young 
men of his master’s household should come 
along. They did not know how Parker felt 
about the matter, or they never would have al- 
lowed themselves to tease him on the score of his 
people’s defection. 

‘Well, Parker,” said Ralph, “seems mighty 
strange to me that you are not down there in the 
woods at the meeting.” 

The old man was silent. 

29 


In Old Plantation Days 


“T am rather surprised at Parker myself,” said 
Tom Mordaunt; “knowing how he enjoys a good 
sermon I expected him to be over there. They 
do say that man Johnson is a mighty preacher.” 

Still Parker was silent. 

“Most of your congregation are over there,” 
Ralph resumed. ‘Then the old exhorter, stung 
into reply, raised his head and said quietly: 

“Dat ain’t nuffin’ strange, Mas’ Ralph. I 
been preachin’ de gospel on yo’ father’s planta- 
tion, night aftah night, nigh on to twenty-five 
years, an’ spite o’ dat, mos’ o’ my congregation 
is in hell.” 

‘That doesn’t speak very well for your preach- 
ing,” said Ralph, and the two young fellows 
laughed heartily. 

“Come, Parker, come, don’t be jealous; come 
on over to the meeting with us, and let us see 
what it is that Johnson has that you haven’t. 
You know any man can get a congregation about 
him, but it takes some particular power to hold 
them after they are caught.” 

Parker rose slowly from the ground and re- 
luctantly joined his two young masters as they 
made their way toward the woods. The service 
was in full swing. At a long black log, far to 

30 


The Walls of Jericho 


the front, there knelt a line of mourners wailing 
and praying, while the preacher stood above 
them waving his hands and calling on them to 
believe and be saved. Every now and then some 
one voluntarily broke into a song, either a stir- 
ring, marching spiritual or some soft crooning 
melody that took strange hold upon the hearts of 
even the most skeptical listeners. As they ap- 
proached and joined the crowd some one had just 
swung into the undulating lilt of 


‘Some one buried in de graveyard, 
Some one buried in de sea, 

All come togethah in de mo’nin’, 
Go soun’ de Jubilee.” 


Just the word “Jubilee” was enough to start 
the whole throng into agitated life, and they 
moaned and shouted and wailed until the forest 
became a pandemonium. 

Johnson, the preacher, saw Parker approach 
with the two young men and a sudden spirit of 
conquest took possession of him. He felt that he 
owed it to himself to crystallize his triumph over 
the elder exhorter. So, with a glance that begged 
for approbation, he called aloud: 

“Open de baskets! Rise up, fu’ de Jericho 

31 


In Old Plantation Days 


walls o’ sin is a-stan’in’. You ’member dey 
ma’ched roun’ seven times, an’ at de sevent’ time 
de walls a-begun to shake an’ shiver; de founda- 
tions a-begun to trimble; de chillen a-hyeahed de 
rum’lin’ lak a thundah f’om on high, an’ putty 
soon down come de walls a-fallin’ an’ a-crum’lin’ ! 
Oh, brothahs an’ sistahs, let us a-ma’ch erroun’ 
de walls o’ Jericho to-night seven times, an’ a- 
eatin’ o’ de food dat de Lawd has pervided us 
wid. Dey ain’t no walls o’ brick an’ stone 
a-stan’in’ hyeah to-night, but by de eye o’ Chris- 
tian faif I see a great big wall o’ sin a-stan’in’ 
strong an’ thick hyeah in ouah midst. Is we 
gwine to let it stan’ ?”’ 

“Oh, no, no!” moaned the people. 

“Ts we gwine to ma’ch erroun’ dat wall de 
same ez Joshuay an’ his ban’ did in de days of 
ol’, ontwell we hyeah de cracklin’ an’ de rum’lin’, 
de breakin’ an’ de taihin’, de onsettlin’ of de 
foundations an’ de fallin’ of de stones an’ 
mo’tah?” Then raising his voice he broke into 
the song: 

‘Den we'll ma’ch, ma’ch down, ma’ch, ma’ch 
down, 
Oh, chillen, ma’ch down, 
In de day o’ Jubilee.” 


32 


The Walls of Jericho 


The congregation joined him in the ringing 
chorus, and springing to their feet began march- 
ing around and around the inclosure, chewing 
vigorously in the breathing spaces of the hymn. 

The two young men, who were too used to 
such sights to be provoked to laughter, nudged 
each other and bent their looks upon Parker, who 
stood with bowed head, refusing to join in the 
performance, and sighed audibly. 

After the march Tom and Ralph started for 
home, and Parker went with them. 

“He’s very effective, don’t you think so, 
Tom?” said Ralph. 

“Immensely so,” was the reply. “I don’t 
know that I have ever seen such a moving spec- 
taole.” 

‘*The people seem greatly taken up with him.” 

“Personal magnetism, that’s what it is. Don’t 
you think so, Parker?” 

“Hum,” said Parker. 

“Tt’s a wonderful idea of his, that marching 
around the walls of sin.” 

“So original, too. It’s a wonder you never 
thought of a thing like that, Parker. I believe 
it would have held your people to you in the face 
of everything. They do love to eat and march.” 

33 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Well,” said Parker, ‘‘you all may think what 
you please, but I ain’t nevah made no business of 
mekin’ a play show outen de Bible. Dem folks 
don’t know what dey’re doin’. Why, ef dem 
niggahs hyeahed anything commence to fall 
they’d taih dat place up gittin’ erway f’om daih. 
It’s a wondah de Lawd don’ sen’ a jedgmen’ on 
em fu’ tu’nin’ His wo’d into mockery.” 

The two young men bit their lips and a know- 
ing glance flashed between them. The same idea 
had leaped into both of their minds at once. 
They said no word to Parker, however, save at 
parting, and then they only begged that he would 
go again the next night of the meeting. 

‘You must, Parker,” said Ralph. ‘You must 
represent the spiritual interest of the plantation. 
If you don’t, that man Johnson will think we 
are heathen or that our exhorter is afraid of 
him.” 

At the name of fear the old preacher bridled 
and said with angry dignity: 

“‘Nemmine, nemmine; he shan’t nevah think 
dat. I'll be daih.” 

Parker went alone to his cabin, sore at heart; 
the young men, a little regretful that they had 
stung him a bit too far, went up to the big house, 

34 


The Walls of Jericho 


their heads close together, and in the darkness 
and stillness there came to them the hymns of the 
people. 

On the next night Parker went early to the 
meeting-place and, braced by the spirit of his 
defiance, took a conspicuous front seat. His face 
gave no sign, though his heart throbbed angrily 
as he saw the best and most trusted of his flock 
come in with intent faces and seat themselves 
anxiously to await the advent of an alien. Why 
had those rascally boys compelled him for his 
own dignity’s sake to come there? Why had 
they forced him to be a living witness of his own 
degradation and of his own people’s ingratitude ? 

But Parker was a diplomat, and when the 
hymns began he joined his voice with the voices 
of the rest. 

Something, though, tugged at Parker’s breast, 
a vague hoped-for something; he knew not what 
—the promise of relief from the tension of his 
jealousy, the harbinger of revenge. It was in 
the air. Everything was tense as if awaiting the 
moment of catastrophe. He found himself joy- 
ous, and when Johnson arose on the wings of his 
eloquence it was Parker’s loud ‘Amen’ which 
set fire to all the throng. Then, when the meet- 

35 


In Old Plantation Days 


ing was going well, when the spiritual fire had 
been thoroughly kindled and had gone from 
crackling to roaring; when the hymns were loud- 
est and the hand-clapping strongest, the revivalist 
called upon them to rise and march around the 
walls of Jericho. Parker rose with the rest, and, 
though he had no basket, he levied on the store 
of a solicitous sister and marched with them, 
singing, singing, but waiting, waiting for he knew 
not what. 

It was the fifth time around and yet nothing 
had happened. ‘Then the sixth, and a rumbling 
sound was heard near at hand. A tree crashed 
down on one side. White eyes were rolled in the 
direction of the noise and the burden of the hymn 
was left to the few faithful. Half way around 
and the bellow of a horn broke upon the startled 
people’s ears, and the hymn sank lower and 
lower. ‘The preacher’s face was ashen, but he 
attempted to inspire the people, until on the 
seventh turn such a rumbling and such a clatter- 
ing, such a tumbling of rocks, such a falling of 
trees as was never heard before gave horror to 
the night. The people paused for one moment 
and then the remains of the bread and meat were 
cast to the winds, baskets were thrown away, and 

36 


“ “STAN? STILL, STAN’ STILL—AN’ SEE DE SALVATION’ ” 


The Walls of Jericho 


the congregation, thoroughly maddened with 
fear, made one rush for the road and the quar- 
ters. Ahead of them all, his long coat-tails flying 
and his legs making not steps but leaps, was the 
Rev. Mr. Johnson. He had no word of courage 
or hope to offer the frightened flock behind him. 
Only Parker, with some perception of the situa- 
tion, stood his ground. He had leaped upon a 
log and was crying aloud: 

“Stan’ still, stan’ still, I say, an’ see de salva- 
tion,” but he got only frightened, backward 
glances as the place was cleared. 

When they were all gone, he got down off the 
log and went to where several of the trees had 
fallen. He saw that they had been cut nearly 
through during the day on the side away from 
the clearing, and ropes were still along the upper 
parts of their trunks. Then he chuckled softly 
to himself. As he stood there in the dim light of 
the fat-pine torches that were burning themselves 
out, two stealthy figures made their way out of 
the surrounding gloom into the open space. Tom 
and Ralph were holding their sides, and Parker, 
with a hand on the shoulder of each of the boys, 


laughed unrighteously. 
37 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Well, he hyeahed de rum’lin’ an’ crum’lin’,” 


he said, and Ralph gasped. 

“You’re the only one who stood your ground, 
Parker,” said Tom. 

“How erbout de walls o’ Jericho now?” was 
all Parker could say as he doubled up. 

When the people came back to their senses 
they began to realize that the Rev. Mr. Johnson 
had not the qualities of a leader. Then they re- 
called how Parker had stood still in spite of the 
noise and called them to wait and see the salva- 
tion, and so, with a rush of emotional feeling, 
they went back to their old allegiance. Parker’s 
meeting-house again was filled, and for lack of 
worshipers Mr. Johnson held no more meetings 


and marched no more around the walls of 
Jericho. 


38 


HOW BROTHER PARKER FELL FROM 
GRACE. 


It all happened so long ago that it has almost 
been forgotten upon the plantation, and few save 
the older heads know anything about it save from 
hearsay. It was in Parker’s younger days, but 
the tale was told on him for a long time, until 
he was so old that every little disparagement cut 
him like a knife. Then the young scapegraces 
who had the story only from their mothers’ lips 
spared his dotage. Even to young eyes, the re- 
spect which hedges about the form of eighty ob- 
scures many of the imperfections that are ap- 
parent at twenty-eight, and Parker was nearing 
eighty. 

The truth of it is that Parker, armed with the 
authority which his master thought the due of 
the plantation exhorter, was wont to use his 
power with rather too free a rein. He was so 
earnest for the spiritual welfare of his fellow- 
servants that his watchful ministrations became 
a nuisance and a bore. 

Even Aunt Doshy, who was famous for her 
devotion to all that pertained to the church, had 
39 


In Old Plantation Days 


been heard to state that ““Brothah Pahkah was 
a moughty powahful ’zortah, but he sholy was 
monst’ous biggity.” This from a member of 
his flock old enough to be his mother, quite 
summed up the plantation’s estimate of this black 
disciple. 

There was many a time when it would have 
gone hard with Brother Parker among the young 
bucks on the Mordaunt plantation but that there 
was scarcely one of them but could remember 4 
time when Parker had come to his cabin to con- 
sole some sick one, help a seeker, comfort the dy- 
ing or close the eyes of one already dead, and it 
clothed him about with a sacredness, which, how- 
ever much inclined, they dared not invade. 

“Ain’t it enough,’? Mandy’s Jim used to say, 
“fw? Brothah Pahkah to ’tend to his business 
down at meetin’ widout spookin’ ’roun’ all de 
cabins an’ outhouses? Seems to me dey’s enough 
dev’ment gwine on right undah his nose widout 
him gwine ’roun’ tryin’ to smell out what’s hid.” 

Every secret sinner on the place agreed with 
this dictum, and it came to the preacher’s ears. 
He smiled broadly. 

“Uh, huh,” he remarked, “hit’s de stuck pig 
dat squeals. I reckon Jim’s up to some’p’n right 


40 | 


How Brother Parker Fell from Grace 


now, an’ I lay [’ll fin’ out what dat some’p’n is.” 
Parker was a subtle philosopher and Jim had 
by his remark unwittingly disclosed his interest 
in the preacher’s doings. It then behooved his 
zealous disciple to find out the source of this un- 
usual interest and opposition. 

On the Sunday following his sermon was 
strong, fiery and convincing. His congregation 
gave themselves up to the joy of the occasion and 
lost all consciousness of time or place in their 
emotional ecstacy. But, although he continued 
to move them with his eloquence, not for one mo- 
ment did Parker lose possession of himself. His. 
eyes roamed over the people before him and took 
in the absence of several who had most loudly 
and heartily agreed with Jim’s dictum. Jim him- 
self was not there. 

“Uh, huh,” said the minister to himself even 
in the midst of his exhortations. ‘Uh, huh, er- 
way on some dev’ment, I be boun’.”” He could 
hardly wait to hurry through his sermon. Then 
he seized his hat and almost ran away from the 
little table that did duty as a pulpit desk. He 
brushed aside with scant ceremony those who 
would have asked him to their cabins to share 
some special delicacy, and made his way swiftly 

41 


eis 


In Old Plantation Days 


to the door. There he paused and cast a wonder- 
ing glance about the plantation. 

“T des wondah whaih dem scoun’els is mos’ 
lakly to be.””. Then his eye fell upon an old half- 
ruined smoke-house that stood between the 
kitchen and the negro quarters, and he murmured 
to himself, ‘“‘Lak ez not, lak ez not.’ But he did 
not start directly for the object of his suspicions. 
Oh, no, he was too deep a diplomat for that. He 
knew that if there were wrongdoers in that inno- 
cent-looking ruin they would be watching in his 
direction about the time when they expected 
meeting to be out; so he walked off swiftly, but 
carelessly, in an opposite direction, and, instead 
of going straight past the kitchen, began to cir- 
cle around from the direction of the quarters, 
whence no danger would be apprehended. 

As he drew nearer and nearer the place, he 
thought he heard the rise and fall of eager voices. 
He approached more cautiously. Now he was 
perfectly sure that he could hear smothered con- 
versation, and he smiled grimly as he pictured 
to himself the surprise of his quarry when he 
should come up with them. He was almost upon 
the smoke-house now. Those within were so ab- 


42 


How Brother Parker Fell from Grace 


sorbed that the preacher was able to creep up and 
peer through a crack at the scene within. 

There, seated upon the earthen floor, were the 
unregenerate of the plantation. In the very 
midst of them was Mandy’s Jim, and he was 
dealing from a pack of greasy cards. 

It is a wonder that they did not hear the 
preacher’s gasp of horror as he stood there gaz- 
ing upon the iniquitous performance. But they 
did not. The delight of High-Low-Jack was 
too absorbing for that, and they suspected noth- 
ing of Parker’s presence until he slipped around 
to the door, pushed it open and confronted them 
like an accusing angel. 

Jim leaped to his feet with a strong word upon 
his lips. 

“T reckon you done fu’got, Brothah Jim, what 
day dis is,” said the preacher. 

“T ain’t fu’got nuffin,” was the dogged reply; 
“T don’t see what you doin’ roun’ hyeah nohow.” 

“T’s a lookin’ aftah some strayin’ lambs,”’ said 
Parker, “‘an’ I done foun’’em. You ought to be 
ashamed o’ yo’se’ves, evah one o’ you, playin’ 
cyards on de Lawd’s day.” 

There was the light of reckless devia in 
Jim’s eyes. 

43 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Dey ain’t no h’am ina little game o’ cyards.”’ 

“‘Co’se not, co’se not,” replied the preacher 
scornfully. ‘‘Dem’s des de sins that’s ca’ied 
many a man to hell wid his eyes wide open, de 
little no-ha’m kin’.”’ 

“T don’t reckon you evah played cyards,” said 
Jim sneeringly. 

‘Yes, I has played, an’ I thought I was en- 
joyin’ myse’f ontwell I foun’ out dat it was all 
wickedness an’ idleness.” 

“Oh, I don’t reckon you was evah ve’y much 
of a player. I know lots o’ men who has got 
u’ligion des case dey couldn’t win at cyards.”’ 

The company greeted this sally with a laugh 
and then looked aghast at Jim’s audacity. 

“U’ligion’s a moughty savin’ to de pocket,” 
Jim went on. ‘We kin believe what we wants 
to, and I say you nevah was no playah, an’ dat’s 
de reason you tuk up de Gospel.” 

“Hit ain’t so. I ’low dey was a time when I 
could ’a’ outplayed any one o’ you sinnahs hyeah, 
but ¥ 

“Prove it!’ The challenge shot forth like a 
pistol’s report. 

Parker hesitated. ‘What you mean?” he 
said. 


44 


How Brother Parker Fell from Grace 


“Beat me, beat all of us, an’ we'll believe you 
didn’t quit playin’ case you allus lost. You a 
preachah now, an’ I daih you.” 

Parker’s face turned ashen and his hands 
gripped together. He was young then, and the 
hot blood sped tumultuously through his veins. 

“Prove it,” said Jim; “‘you cain’t. We'd play 
you outen yo’ coat an’ back into de pulpit ag’in.” 

“You would, would you?” The light of bat- 
tle was in Parker’s eyes, the desire for conquest 
throbbing in his heart. “Look a’hyeah, Jim, 
Sunday er no Sunday, preachah er no preachah, 
I play you th’ee games fu’ de Gospel’s sake.” 
And the preacher sat down in the circle, his face 
tense with anger at his tormentor’s insinuations. 
He did not see the others around him. He saw 
only Jim, the man who had spoken against his 
cloth. He did not see the look of awe and sur- 
prise upon the faces of the others, nor did he note 
that one of the assembly slipped out of the shed 
just as the game began. 

Jim found the preacher no mean antagonist, 
but it mattered little to him whether he won or 
not. His triumph was complete when he suc- 
ceeded in getting this man, who kept the con- 
science of the plantation, to sin as others sinned. 

45 


In Old Plantation Days 


“TI see you ain’t fu’got yo’ cunnin’,” he re- 
marked as the preacher dealt in turn. 

‘*’Tain’t no time to talk now,” said Parker 
fiercely. 

The excitement of the onlookers grew more 
and more intense. ‘They were six and six, and 
it was the preacher’s deal. His eyes were bright, 
and he was breathing quickly. Parker was a born 
fighter and nothing gave him more joy than the 
heat of the battle itself. He riffled the cards. 
Jim cut. He dealt and turned Jack. Jim 
laughed. 

“You know the trick,” he said. 

“Dat’s one game,”’ said Parker, and bent over 
the cards as they came to him. He did not hear 
a light step outside nor did he see a shadow that 
fell across the open doorway. He was just about 
to lead when a cold voice, full of contempt, broke 
upon his ear and made him keep the card he 
would have played poised in his hand. 

“And so these are your after-meeting diver- 
sions, are they, Parker?” said his master’s voice. 

Stuart Mordaunt was standing in the door, his 
face cold and stern, while his informant grinned 
maliciously. 


46 


How Brother Parker Fell from Grace 


Parker brushed his hand across his brow as if 
dazed. 

‘Well, Mas’ Stua’t, he do play monst’ous well 
fu’ a preachah,” said his tempter. 

The preacher at these words looked steadily 
at Jim, and then the realization of his position 
burst upon him. The tiger in him came upper- 
most and, with flaming eyes, he took a quick step 
toward Jim. 

“Stop,” said Mordaunt, coming between 
them; don’t add anything more to what you have 
already done.” 

‘“‘Mas’ Stua’t, I—I———”’ Parker broke down, 
and, turning away from the exultant faces, 
rushed headlong out of the place. His master 
followed more leisurely, angry and hurt at the 
hypocrisy of a trusted servant. 

Of course the game was over for that day, but 
Jim and his companions hung around the smoke- 
house for some time, rejoicing in the downfall of 
their enemy. Afterward, they went to their 
cabins for dinner. Then Jim made a mistake. 
With much laughter and boasting he told Mandy 
all about it, and then suddenly awakened to the 
fact that she was listening to him with a face on 
which only horror was written. Jim turned to 

47 


In Old Plantation Days 


his meal in silence and disgust. A woman has no 
sense of humor. 

‘“Whaih you gwine?” he asked, as Mandy be- 
gan putting on her bonnet and shawl with omin- 
ous precision. 

“T’s gwine up to de big house, dat’s whaih I’s 
gwine.”’ 

‘What you gwine daih fu’ ?” 

‘T’s gwine to tell Mas’ Stua’t all erbout hit.” 

“Don’t you daih.” 

“Heish yo’ mouf. Don’t you talk to me, you 
nasty, low-life scamp. I’s gwine tell Mas’ Stua’t, 
an’ I hope an’ pray he’ll tek all de hide offen yo 
back.” 

Jim sat in bewildered misery as Mandy flirted 
out of the cabin; he felt vaguely some of the 
hopelessness of defeat which comes to a man 
whenever he attempts to lay sacrilegious hands 
on a woman’s religion or what stands to her for 
religion. 

Parker was sitting alone in his cabin with 
bowed head when the door opened and his mas- 
ter came across the floor and laid his hand gently 
on the negro’s shoulder. 

“T didn’t know how it was, Parker.’’ he said 
softly. 


48 


How Brother Parker Fell from Grace 
“Oh, I’s back-slid, I’s fell from grace,” 


moaned Parker. 

“Nonsense,” said his master, ‘“‘you’ve fallen 
from nothing. There are times when we’ve got 
to meet the devil on his own ground and fight him 
with his own weapons.” 

Parker raised his head gladly. ‘Say dem 
wo'ds ag’in, Mas’ Stua’t,” he said. 

His master repeated the words, but added: 
“But it isn’t safe to go into the devil’s camp too 
often, Parker.” 

“T ain’t gwine into his camp no mo’. Aftah 
dis I’s gwine to stan’ outside an’ hollah in.” His 
face was beaming and his voice trembled with 
joy. 

“T didn’t think I'd preach to-night,” he said 
timidly. 

“Of course you will,’ said Mordaunt, ‘‘and 
your mistress and J are coming to hear you, so 
do your best.” 

His master went out and Parker went down 
on his knees. 

He did preach that night and the plantation 
remembered the sermon. 


6c 


49 


THE TROUSERS. 


It was a nasty, rainy Sunday morning. The 
dripping skies lowered forbiddingly and the 
ground about the quarters was slippery with mud 
and punctuated with frequent dirty puddles 
where the rain had collected in the low spots. 
Through this Brother Parker, like the good pas- 
tor that he was, was carefully picking his way 
toward the log meeting house on the border of 
the big woods, for neither storm nor rain could 
keep him away from his duty however careless 
his flock might prove. He was well on his way 
when he was arrested by the sound of a voice call- 
ing him from one of the cabins, and Ike, one of 
the hands, came running after him. His wife, 
Caroline, was sick, and as she could not get to 
church, she desired the pastor’s immediate spir- 
itual ministrations at her own house. 

The preacher turned back eagerly. His duty 
was always sweet to him and nothing gave him 
so keen a sense of pleasure as to feel that he was 
hurried to attend to all that needed him—that 
one duty crowded upon the heels of another. 
Moreover, he was a strong man of prayer in the 

50 


The Trousers 


sick room and some word that he should say 
might fall as a seed upon the uncultivated ground 
of Ike’s heart, or if not, that he might heap coals 
of fire upon his head, for he was still a sinner. 

With these thoughts and speculations in his 
mind, he started back to the cabin. But alas, for 
his haste, a sneaking, insidious piece of land lay 
in wait for him. Upon this he stepped. In an- 
other instant, his feet were pointing straight be- 
fore him and he sat down suddenly in one of the 
biggest of the mud puddles. The tails of his 
long coat spread out about him and covered him 
like a blanket. 

“Oomph!” he exclaimed as if the impact had 
driven the word from his lips, and for a moment 
he sat looking pitifully up into Ike’s face, as if 
to see if there were any laughter there. But there 
was no mirth in the younger man’s countenance. 

“Did you hu’t yo’se’f, Brother Pahkah?” he 
asked, offering his hand. 

“Well, seems like hit’s shuck me up a leetle. 
But I reckon hit’ll des’ settle my bones mo’ 
natchally fu’ de grave.” 

“Hit’s too bad I had to call you. Hit nevah 
would a’ happened if it hadn’t a been fu’ dat.” 

“Heish, man. Hit’s all right. De shephud 

SI 


In Old Plantation Days 


muss answeh de call 0’ de lambs, don’ keer whut 
de weathah an’ whut de tribbilations, dat’s what 
he tu. 

The old man spoke heroically, but he felt rue- 
fully his soaking and damaged trousers even 
while the words were on his lips. 

“Well, let’s pu’su’ ouah way.” 

He took up his hurried walk again and led Ike 
to his own door, the cloth of his garments stick- 
ing to him and the tails of his coat flapping damp- 
ly about his legs. 

It has been maintained, with some degree of 
authority to enforce the statement, that the 
Americanized African is distinctly averse to cold 
water. If this is true, Parker was giving a glow- 
ing illustration of the warmth of his religion or 
the strength of his endurance, for not once did 
he murmur or make mention of his wet clothes 
even when the sick woman, all unconscious of his 
misfortune, started in upon a long history of her 
bodily ailments and spiritual experiences. He 
gave her sound pastoral advice, condoled with 
her and prayed with her. But when his ministra- 
tions were over, something like a sigh of relief 
broke from the old man’s breast. 

He turned at once to Ike: “‘Brothah Ike,’’ he 

52 


The Trousers 


said. “I’s feared to go on to meetin’ in dese 
pants. I’s ol’ an’ dey ain’t no tellin’ but I’d tek 
col’. Has you got a spaih paih ’bout?” 

Ike was suddenly recalled to himself, and his 
wife, upon hearing the matter explained, was for 
getting up and helping to brush and fix up the 
none too neat pair of trousers that her husband 
found for the preacher. Dissuaded from doing 
this, she was loud in denunciations of her inno- 
cent self for keeping brother Parker so long in 
his wet garments. But the old man, thankful to 
get out of them at last, bade her not to worry. 

“T reckon it’s de oldés’ hosses aftah all dat 
kin stan’ de ha’des’ whacks,”’ he said, and with 
these cheery words hastened off to meeting. 

As was to be expected, he was late in arriving, 
and his congregation were singing hymn after 
hymn as he came up in order to pass the time and 
keep themselves in the spirit. It warmed his 
heart as he heard the rolling notes and he was 
all ready to dash into his sermon as soon as he 
was seated before the table that did duty as a 
reading desk. He flung himself into the hymn 
with all the power that was in him, and even be- 
fore his opening prayer was done, the congrega- 

53 


In Old Plantation Days 


tion showed that it was unable to contain its holy 
joy. 

“OY Brothah Pahkah sholy is full of de spirit 
dis mo’nin,” Aunt Fanny whispered to Aunt 
Tempe, and Aunt Tempe whispered back, “‘I 
reckon he done been in his secut closet an’ had 
a pensacoshul showah befo’ he come.” 

‘He sholy been a dwellin’ on Mount Sinai. 
Seem lak he mus a’hyeahed de thundah.” 

‘““Heish, honey, he’s a thunde’in hisself.” 

And so like the whisper of waves on a shore, 
the ripple of comment ran around the meeting 
house, for there were none present but saw that 
in some way the spirit had mysteriously de- 
scended upon their pastor. 

Just as the prayer ended and the congregation 
had swung into another spiritual hymn, Ike en- 
tered with a scared look upon his face and took 
a seat far back near the door. He glanced sheep- 
ishly about the church, and then furtively at 
Brother Parker. Once he made as if to rise, but 
thinking better of it, ducked his head and kept 
his seat. 

Now, if one thing more than another was 
needed to fire the exhorter, it was the voluntary 
presence of this sinner untouched by the gospel. 

54 


The Trousers 


His eyes glowed and his old frame quivered with 
emotion. He would deliver a message that 
morning that would be pointed straight at the 
heart of Ike. 

To the observer not absorbed by one idea, 
however, there was something particularly 
strange in the actions of this last comer. Some 
things that he did did not seem to argue that he 
had come to the house of worship seeking a 
means of grace. After his almost stealthy en- 
trance and his first watchful glances about the 
room, he had subsided into his seat with an atti- 
tude that betokened a despair not wholly spir- 
itual. His eyes followed every motion the 
preacher made as he rose and looked over the 
congregation and he grew visibly more uneasy. 
Once or twice it seemed that the door behind 
him opened a bit and there is no doubt that sev- 
eral times he turned and looked that way, on one 
occasion giving his head a quick shake when the 
door was hastily, but softly closed. 

When Parker began his sermon Ike crept guilt- 
ily to his feet to slip out, but the old preacher 
paused with his eyes upon him, saying, “I hope 
none o’ de cong’egationwillleave de sanctua’y be- 
fo’ de sehvice is ended. We isin now, an’ gettin’ 

55 


In Old Plantation Days 


up will distu’b de res.’ Hit ain’t gwine hu’t none 
of us to gin one day to de Lawd, spechully ef dem 
what is neah an’ deah unto us.is layin’ erpon de 
bed of affliction,’ and the man had sunk back 
miserably into his seat with the looks of all his 
fellows fixed on him. From then, he watched the 
preacher as if fascinated. 

Parker was in his glory. He had before him 
a sinner writhing on the Gospel gridiron and 
how he did apply the fire. 

Ike moved about and squirmed, but the old 
man held him with his eye while he heaped coals 
of fire upon the head of the sinner man. He 
swept the whole congregation with his gaze, but 
it came back and rested on Ike as he broke into 
the song, 


i * 
“Oh, sinnah, you needn’t try to run erway, 
You sho’ to be caught on de jedgment day.” 


He sung the camp meeting “spiritual” with its 

powerful personal allusions all through, and then 

resumed his sermon. ‘Oh, I tell you de Gospel 

is a p’inted swo’d to de sinnah. Hit mek him 

squi’m, hit mek him shivvah and hit mek him 

shek. He sing loud in de day, but he hide his 
56 


Seon ay OO, 
SID 


oe 


“I TELL YOU, DE GOSPEL IS A P’?INTED SWO’D TO DE 
SINNAH’ ”’ 


The Trousers 


face at night. Oh, sinnah, what you gwine to do 
on de gret day? What do de song say? 


“W’en de rocks an’ de mountains shell all flee erway, 
W’y a you shell have a new hidin’ place dat day.’ 


Oh, sinnah man, is you a huntin’ fu’ de new hid- 
in’ place? Is you a fixin’ fu’ de time w’en de 
rocks shell be melted an’ de mountains shell run 
lak rivers?” 

Parker had settled well down to his work. As 
his own people would have expressed it, “‘He’d 
done tried de watah an’ waded out.” They were 
shouting and crying aloud as he talked. A low 
minor of moans ran around the room, punctu- 
ated by the sharp slapping of hands and stamp- 
ing of feet. On all sides there were cries of 
. Drath; truth!” “Amenl” “Amen!” and ‘Keep 
in de stream, Pahkah; keep in de stream!” 

This encouragement was meat to the pastor’s 
soul and he rose on the wings of his eloquence. 
The sweat was pouring down his black face. He 
put his hand back to his pocket to pull out 
his handkerchief to wipe his face. It came 
out with a flourish, and with it a pack of 
cards. They flew into the air, wavered and then 
fluttered down like a flock of doves. Aces, 

57 


In Old Plantation Days 


jacks, queens and tens settled all about the floor 
grinning wickedly face upward. Parker stopped 
still in the midst of a sentence and gazed speech- 
less at the guilty things before him. The people 
gasped. It all flashed over them in a minute. 
They had heard a story of their pastor’s fond- 
ness for the devil’s picture books in his younger 
days and now it had come back upon him and he 
had fallen once more. Here was incontestable 
proof. 

Parker, in a dazed way, put his hand again 
into his back pocket and brought forth the king 
of spades. His flock groaned. 

“Come down outen dat pulpit,” cried one of 
the bolder ones. ‘‘Come down!” 

Then Parker found his voice. 

“Fo’ de lawd, folks,” he said, gazing sorrow- 
fully at the king. ‘Dese ain’t my pants ner my 
cyards.” ‘Then his eye fell upon Ike, who was 
taking advantage of the confusion to make 
toward the door and he thundered at him. 
“Come back hyeah, you rapscallion, an’ claim 
yo’ dev’ment! Come back hyeah.”’ 

Ike came shamefacedly back. He came for- 
ward and commenced to pick up the cards while 
Parker was making his explanations to the re- 

58 


The Trousers 


lieved flock. The sinner got all of the cards, 
except one and that one the preacher still held. 

“Brothah Pahkah, Brother Pahkah,” he whis- 
pered, “You’s a hol’in’ de king.” The old man 
dropped it as if it had burnt him and grabbing 
it, the scapegrace fled. 

Outside the door all things were explained. 
Several fellows with angry faces were waiting 
for Ike. 

“Couldn’t he’p it, boys,” he said. “He done 
begun sehvice w’en I got in. I couldn’t stop 
him, an’ den w’en he dropped all the res’ he held 
on to de king.” 

“Well, all I got to say,” said the fiercest of 
the lot, “‘don’ you nevah put dat deck in yo’ 
pocket no mo’ an’ len’ yo’ pants. Come on, de 
game’s been waitin’ a houah, put’ nigh.” 


59 


THE LAST FIDDLING OF MOR- 
DAUNT?’S JIM. 


When the Spirit has striven with a man year 
after year without success, when he has been con- 
victed and then gone back, when he has been con- 
verted and then backslidden, it’s about time to 
say of him that there is the devil’s property, with 
his deed signed and sealed. All of these things 
had happened to Jim. He became serious and 
bowed his head in the meeting house, a sure sign 
of contrition and religious intention, but the very 
next night he had been caught “‘wingin’ ” behind 
the smoke-house with the rest of the unregener- 
ate. Once he had actually cried out “Amen!” 
but it was afterwards found out that one of his 
fellows had trodden upon his foot, and that the 
“Amen” came in lieu of a less virtuous expletive. 

Had it been that Jim’s iniquities affected him- 
self only he might have been endured, at least 
with greater patience; but this was not so. He 
was the prime mover in every bit of deviltry that 
set the plantation by the ears, and the most 
effectual destroyer of every religious influence 
that its master attempted to throw around it. 

60 


The Last Fiddling of Mordaunt’s Jim 


His one fiddle had caused more backsliding, 
more flagrant defections from the faith than had 
any other invention of the devil that the planta- 
tion knew. 

All of Parker’s pleas and sermons had been 
unavailing—even his supreme exhortation, when 
he threatened the wicked with eternal fiddling, 
when their souls should be pining for rest and 
silence and never find it. Jim was there, but he 
appeared unmoved. He laughed when Parker 
broke out, “Fiddle on, you sinnahs, fiddle on! 
But de time’ll come w’en you'll want to hyeah 
praih, an’ you'll hyeah a fiddle; w’en you'll want 
to sing a hymn, an’ you'll hyeah a fiddle; w’en 
you'll be list’nin’ fu’ de soun’ of de angels’ voices 
erbove de noise of earf, an’ you’ll hyeah a fiddle. 
Fiddle on, sinnahs, but w’en you hyeah de soun’ 
of Jerdon a-dashin’ on de rocks, w’en you hyeah 
de watah leapin’ an’ a-lashin’, way up erbove 
dem all you'll hyeah de devil fiddlin’ fu’ you an’ 
you’ll follah him on an’ into dat uttah da’kness 
whaih dey is wailin’ an’ gnash-in’ o’ teef. Fiddle 
on, sinnah, fiddle on! dance on, sinnah, dance 
on! laugh on, sinnah, laugh on! but I tell you 
de time will come w’en dat laughin’ will be 
tu’ned to weepin’, an’ de soun’ of de fiddle shell 

61 


In Old Plantation Days 


be as de call of de las’ trump in yo’ yeahs.” And 
Jim laughed. He went home that night and fid- 
dled until nearly morning. 

‘“‘’Pears to me,”’ he said to his wife, ‘‘a good 
fiddle ’ud be a moughty fine t’ing to hyeah ez a 
body was passin’ ovah Jerdon, ez ol’ Pahkah 
Callsater 

“‘Nemmine, Jim,’ said Mandy, solemn and 
shocked; ‘“‘nemmine, you an’ yo’ dev’ment. 
Brothah Pahkah right, an’ de time gwine come 
w’en dat fiddle gwine ter be to yo’ soul ez a mill- 
stone dat been cas’ in de middle of de sea, dat’ll 
bring fo’th tares, some fifty an’ some a hund’ed 
fol’. Nemmine, all I got to say to you, you 
bettah listen to de Wo’d ez it is preached.” 

“Mandy,” said Jim irreverently, ‘‘d’you 
*membah dat ol’ chune, ‘Hoe co’n, an’ dig per- 
taters?? Don’t it go ‘long somep’n’ lak dis?” 

““Lawsy, yes, honey, dat’s hit,” and before the 
poor deluded creature knew what she was doing 
she was nodding her head in time to the seduc- 
tive melody, while Jim fiddled and chuckled 
within himself until the joke was too much for 
him, and he broke down and ended with a discord 
which brought Mandy to her sorrowing senses. 

Her discretion came to her, though not before 

62 


b] 


The Last Fiddling of Mordaunt’s Jim 


Parker’s white inquisitive head had been stuck in 
at the door. 

‘‘Lawd, Sis’ Mandy,” he cried in dismay, “‘you 
ain’t collogin’ wid de spe’it of de devil, too, is 
you? Lawd a’ mussy, ’pon my soul, an’ you one 
of de faifful of de flock! My soul!” 

“T ain’t been collogin’ wid de devil, Brothah 
Pahkah,” said Mandy contritely, ‘‘but dat rap- 
scallion, he fool me an’ got my haid to gwine ’fo’ 
I knowed whut I was bout.” 

“Uh, uh, uh,” murmured the preacher. 

Jim was convulsed. “Hit sho’ is a mighty 
funny ’ligion you preaches, Brothah Pahkah, 
w’en one fiddle chune kin des’ mortally lay out 
all o’ yo’ himes.” 

Parker turned on Jim with the old battle fire 
in his eyes. “Go on!” he cried. ‘Go on, but I 
lay you'll fiddle yo’se’f in hell yit!” And with- 
out more ado he stamped away. He was very 
old, and his temper was shorter than it used to 
be. 

The events of the next week followed each 
other in quick succession and there are many 
tales, none fully authenticated, about what really 
occurred. Some say that, hurt to the quick, Par- 
ker tramped around late that night after his visit 

63 


In Old Plantation Days 


to Jim’s cabin. Others say that he was old and 
feeble and that his decline was inevitable. What- 
ever the truth about the cause of it, the old man 
was taken with a heavy cold which developed 
into fever. Here, too, chroniclers disagree, for 
some say that at no time was he out of his head, 
and that his wild ravings about fiddles and fid- 
dlings were the terrible curses that a righteous 
man may put, and often does put, on a sinner. 

For days the old man’s life hung in the bal- 
ance, and Jim grew contrite under the report of 
his sufferings and Mandy’s accusations. Indeed, 
he fiddled no more, and the offending “‘box,” as 
he called it, lay neglected on a shelf. 

“Yes, you tryin’ to git good now, aftah you 
mos’ nigh killed dat ol’ man, havin’ him trompin’ 
erroun’ in de night aih lookin’ aftah yo’ dev’- 
ment.” Women are so cruel when they feel 
themselves in the right. 

“Fe wan’t trompin’ erroun’ aftah me. I ain’t 
nevah sont fu’ him,” was always Jim’s sullen 
reply. 

“*Tain’t no use beatin’ erbout de bush; you 
knows you been causin’ dat ol’ man a heap er 
trouble, an’ many’s de time he mought ’a’ been 

64 


The Last Fiddling of Mordaunt’s Jim 


in baid takin’ a good res’ ef it hadn’t been fu’ 
yo’ ca’in’ on.” 

Jim grinned a sickly grin and lapsed into 
silence. What was the use of arguing with a 
woman anyway, and how utterly useless it was 
when the argument happened to be about her 
preacher! It is really a remarkable thing how, 
when it comes to woman, the philosophy of man 
in the highest and lowest grades of life arrives 
at the same conclusion. So Jim kept his mouth 
shut for several days until the one on which the 
news came that Parker had rallied and was “‘on 
the mend;” then he opened it to guffaw. ‘This 
brought Mandy down upon him once more. 

‘T sholy don’t know whut to mek o’ you, Jim. 
Instid o’ spreadin’ dat mouf o’ yo’n, you ought 
to be down on yo’ knees a-thankin’ de Lawd dat 
Brothah Pahkah ain’t passed ovah an’ lef’ yo’ 
*niquities on yo’ soul.” 

‘tia, chile, heish “up; (U's gwine celebrate 
Brothah Pahkah’s ’cov’ry.” 

Jim busied himself with dusting and tuning 
his neglected instrument, and immediately after 
supper its strains resounded again through the 
quarters. It rose loud and long, a gladsome 
sound. What wonder, then, that many of the 

65 


In Old Plantation Days 


young people, happy in their old pastor’s recov- 
ery, should gather before Jim’s cabin and foot 
it gayly there? 

But in the midst of the merriment a messenger 
hastened into the cabin with the intelligence that 
Brother Parker wanted Jim at his cabin. Some- 
thing in the messenger’s face, or in the tone of 
his voice, made Jim lay his fiddle aside and hurry 
to Parker’s bedside. 

“Howdy, Bud’ Jim?” said Parker weakly. 

“Howdy, Brothah Pahkah?” said Jim nerv- 
ously; “how you come on?” 

“Well, I’s clothed an’ in my right min’ at las’, 
bless Gawd. Been havin’ a little frolic down to 
yo’ cabin to-night ?” 

Jim twirled his piece of hat tremulously. 

“Yes, suh, we was a kin’ 0’ celebratin’ yo’ git- 
tin’ well.” 

‘Dat uz a moughty po’ way o’ celebratin’ fu’ 
me, Jim, but I ain’t gwine scol’ you now. Dey 
say dat w’ile I wuz outen my haid I said ha’d 
tings erbout you an’ yo’ fiddlin’, Jim. An’ now 
dat de Lawd has giv’ me my senses back ergin, I 
want to ax yo’ pa’don.” 

‘“Brothah Pahkah,” Jim interrupted brokenly, 

66 


The Last Fiddling of Mordaunt’s Jim 


“T ain’t meant no ha’m to’ds you. Hit des’ mus’ 
’a’ been natchul dev’ment in me.” 

“T ain’t a-blamin’ you, Jim, I ain’t a-blamin’ 
you; I only wanted to baig yo’ pa’don fu’ whut- 
evah I said w’en my min’ wan’t mine.” 

“You don’ need to baig my pa’don.” 

‘Run erlong now, Jim, an’ ac’ de bes’ you kin; 
so-long.”’ 

“So-long, Brothah Pahkah,”’ and the contrite 
sinner went slowly out and back to the cabin, sor- 
row, fear, and remorse tugging at his heart. 

He went back to his cabin and to bed at once, 
but he could not sleep for the vague feeling of 
waiting that held his eyes open and made him 
start at every sound. An hour passed with him 
under this nervous tension and then a tap came 
at the door. He sprang up to open it, and 
Mandy, as if moved by the same impulse, rose 
and began to dress hurriedly. Yes, his worst 
fears were realized. Parker was worse, and they 
sent for Mandy to nurse him in what they be- 
lieved to be his last hours. 

Jim dressed, too, and for a while stood in the 
door watching the lights and shadows moving 
over in the direction of the preacher’s cabin. 
Then an ague seemed to seize him, and with a 

67 


In Old Plantation Days 


shiver he came back into the room and closed 
and bolted the door. 

He had sat there, it seemed, a long while, 
when suddenly out of the stillness of the night a 
faint sound struck on his ears. It was as if some 
one far away were fiddling, fiddling a wild, weird 
tune. Jim sat bolt upright, and the sweat broke 
out upon his face in great cold drops. He waited. 
The fiddling came nearer. Jim’s lips began mov- 
ing in silent, but agitated, prayer. Nearer and 
nearer came the sound, and the face of the scape- 
grace alone in the cabin turned ashen with fear, 
then seizing his own fiddle, he smashed it into 
bits upon the chair, crying the while: ‘‘Lawd, 
Lawd, spaih me, an’ I’Jl nevah fiddle ergin!” 
He was on his knees now, but the demon of the 
fiddle came so relentlessly on that he sprang up 
and hurled himself against the door in a very 
ecstasy of terror while he babbled prayer on 
prayer for protection, for just one more trial. 
Then it seemed that his prayer had been an- 
swered. The music began to recede. It grew 
fainter and fainter and passed on into silence. 

Not, however, until the last note had passed 
away did Jim leave the door and sink helpless on 
his knees beside the broken fiddle. It seemed 

68 


The Last Fiddling of Mordaunt’s Jim 


ages before he opened the door to Mandy’s 
knock. 

““Brothah Pahkah done daid,” she said sadly. 

‘T know it,” Jim replied; “I knowed it w’en 
he died, ’case de devil come fu’ me, an’ tried to 
fiddle my soul erway to hell, an’ he ’u’d done it, 
too, ef I hadn’t a-wrassled in praih.” 

“Jim, has you been visited ?” 

“T has,” was the solemn reply, “‘an’ I’ll nevah 
fiddle no mo’ ez long ez I live. Daih’s de fiddle.” 

Mandy looked at the broken instrument, and 
the instinct of thrift drove out her superstition. 
Jim,” she cried out angrily, ‘whut you wan’ ’o 
go brek up dat good fiddle fu’? Why’n’t you 
selleit ?”’ 

“‘No, ma’am, no ma’am, I know whut’s in dat 
fiddle. I's been showed, an’ I ain’t gwine temp’ 
no man wid de devil’s inst’ument.”’ 

From that moment Jim was a pious man, and 
at the great funeral which they gave Brother 
Parker a few days later there was no more seri- 
ous and devout mourner than he. The whole 
plantation marveled and the only man who held 
the key to the situation could not tell the story. 
He was only a belated serenader who had fiddled 
to keep up his spirits on a lonely road. 

69 


In Old Plantation Days 


But Parker’s work was not without its frui- 
tion, for his death accomplished what his life had 
failed to do, and no more moral story was known 
or told on the plantation, than that of the last 
fiddling of Mordaunt’s Jim. 


A SUPPER BY PROXY. 


There was an air of suppressed excitement 
about the whole plantation. The big old house 
stared gravely out as if it could tell great things 
if it would, and the cabins in the quarters looked 
prophetic. The very dogs were on the alert, and 
there was expectancy even in the eyes of the pic- 
caninnies who rolled in the dust. Something 
was going to happen. There was no denying 
that. The wind whispered it to the trees and the 
trees nodded. 

Then there was a clatter of horses’ hoofs, the 
crack of a whip. The bays with the family car- 
riage swept round the drive and halted at the 
front porch. Julius was on the box, resplendent 
in his holiday livery. This was the signal for a 
general awakening. The old house leered an ir- 
ritating “I told you so.” The quarters looked 
complacent. The dogs ran and barked, the pic- 
canninnies laughed and shouted, the servants 
gathered on the lawn and, in the midst of it all, 
the master and mistress came down the steps and 
got into the carriage. Another crack of the 
whip, a shout from the servants, more antics 

71 


In Old Plantation Days 


from the piccaninnies, the scurrying of the dogs 
—and the vehicle rumbled out of sight behind a 
clump of maples. Immediately the big house re- 
sumed its natural appearance and the quarters 
settled back into whitewashed respectability. 

Mr. and Mrs. Mordaunt were off for a week’s 
visit. The boys were away at school, and here 
was the plantation left in charge of the negroes 
themselves, except for the presence of an over- 
seer who did not live on the place. The condi- 
tions seemed pregnant of many things, but a 
calm fell on the place as if every one had de- 
cided to be particularly upon his good behavior. 
The piccaninnies were subdued. The butlers in 
the big house bowed with wonderful deference to 
the maids as they passed them in the halls, and 
the maids called the butlers ‘‘mister’’ when they 
spoke to them. Only now and again from the 
fields could a song be heard. All this was 
ominous. 

By the time that night came many things were 
changed. The hilarity of the little darkies had 
grown, and although the house servants still re- 
mained gravely quiet, on the return of the field 
hands the quarters became frankly joyous. From 
one cabin to another could be heard the sound of 


72 


A Supper by Proxy 


‘Juba, Juba!” and the loud patting of hands and 
the shuffling of feet. Now and again some voice 
could be heard rising above the rest, improvising 
a verse of the song, as: 


“Mas’ done gone to Philamundelphy, Juba, 
Juba. 

Lef’ us bacon, lef’ us co’n braid, Juba, Juba. 

Oh, Juba dis an’ Juba dat, an’ Juba skinned de 


yaller cat 


To mek his wife a Sunday hat, Oh, Juba!” 


Not long did the sounds continue to issue from 
isolated points. The people began drifting to- 
gether, and when a goodly number had gathered 
at a large cabin, the inevitable thing happened. 
Some one brought out a banjo and a dance fol- 
lowed. 

Meanwhile, from the vantage ground of the 
big house, the more favored servants looked dis- 
dainfully on, and at the same time consulted to- 
gether. That they should do something to enter- 
tain themselves was only right and proper. No 
one of ordinary intelligence could think for a mo- 
ment of letting this opportunity slip without tak- 
ing advantage of it. But a dance such as the 
quarters had! Bah! They could never think of 

73 


In Old Plantation Days 


it. That rude, informal affair! And these black 
aristocrats turned up their noses. No, theirs 
must be a grave and dignified affair, such as their 
master himself would have given, and they 
would send out invitations to some on the neigh- 
boring plantations. 

It was Julius, the coachman, who, after win- 
ning around the head butler, Anderson, insisted 
that they ought to give a grand supper. Julius 
would have gone on without the butler’s consent 
had it not been that Anderson carried the keys. 
So the matter was canvassed and settled. 

The next business was the invitations, but no 
one could write. Still, this was a slight matter; 
for neatly folded envelopes were carried about to 
the different favored ones, containing—nothing, 
while at the same time the invitations were prof- 
fered by word of mouth. 

“Hi, dah!” cried Jim to Julius on the evening 
that the cards had been distributed; “‘I ain’t seed 
my imbitation yit.” 

“You needn’t keep yo’ eyes bucked looking fu’ 
none, neithah,” replied Julius. 

“Uh, puttin’ on airs, is you?” 

“T don’t caih to convuss wid you jest now,” 
said Julius pompously. 

74 


A Supper by Proxy 


Jim guffawed. “Well, of all de sights I evah 
seed, a dahky coachman offen de box tryin’ to 
look lak he on it! Go ’long, Julius, er you'll 
sholy kill me, man.” 

The coachman strode on with angry dignity. — 

It had been announced that the supper was to 
be a “‘ladies’ an’ gent’men’s pahty,” and so but 
few from the quarters were asked. The quarters 
were naturally angry and a bit envious, for they 
were but human and not yet intelligent enough 
to recognize the vast social gulf that yawned be- 
tween the blacks at the “‘big house” and the 
blacks who were quartered in the cabins. 

The night of the grand affair arrived, and the 
Mordaunt mansion was as resplendent as it had 
ever been for one of the master’s festivities. The 
drawing-rooms were gayly festooned, and the 
long dining-room was a blaze of light from the 
wax candles that shone on the glory of the Mor- 
daunt plate. Nothing but the best had satisfied 
Julius and Anderson. By nine o’clock the outside 
guests began to arrive. They were the dark aris- 
tocrats of the region. It was a well-dressed as- 
sembly, too. Plump brown arms lay against the 
dainty folds of gleaming muslin, and white- 
stocked, brass-buttoned black counterparts of 

75 


In Old Plantation Days 


their masters strode up the walks. There were 
Dudley Stone’s Gideon and Martha, Robert Cur- 
tis’ Ike with Dely, and there were Quinn, and 
Doshy, and, over them all, Aunt Tempe to keep 
them straight. Of these was the company that 
sat down to Stuart Mordaunt’s board. 

After some rivalry, Anderson held the head of 
the table, while Julius was appeased by being 
placed on the right beside his favorite lady. 
Aunt Tempe was opposite the host where she 
could reprove any unseemly levity or tendency to 
skylarking on the part of the young people. No 
state dinner ever began with more dignity. The 
conversation was nothing less than stately, and 
everybody bowed to everybody else every time 
they thought about it. This condition of affairs 
obtained through the soup. Somebody ventured 
a joke and there was even a light laugh during 
the fish. By the advent of the entree the tongues 
of the assembly had loosened up, and their laugh- 
ter had melted and flowed as freely as Stuart 
Mordaunt’s wine. 

“Well, I mus say, Mistah An’erson, dis is 
sholy a mos’ salub’ious occasion.” 

“Thank you, Mistah Cu’tis, thank you; it 
ah allus my endeavoh to mek my gues’es feel dey- 

76 


A Supper by Proxy 


se’ves at home. Let me give you some mo’ of 
dis wine. It’s f’om de bes’ dat’s in my cellah.” 

“Seems lak I remembah de vintage,” said Ike, 
sipping slowly and with the air of a connoisseur. 

“Oh, yes, you drinked some o’ dis on de ’ca- 
sion of my darter’s ma’ige to Mas’—to Mistah 
Daniels.” 

picicolles pyes liricollec./ 

“Des lis’en at dem dahkies,”’ said the voice of 
a listening field hand. 

Gideon, as was his wont, was saying deeply 
serious things to Martha, and Quinn whispered 
something in Doshy’s ear that made her giggle 
hysterically and cry: “Now, Mr. Quinn, ain’t 
you scan’lous? You des seem lak you possessed 
dis evenin’.” 

In due time, however, the ladies withdrew, anc 
the gentlemen were left over their cigars and 
cognac. It was then that one of the boys detailed 
to wait on the table came in and announced to the 
host that a tramp was without begging for some- 
thing to eat. At the same instant the straggler’s 
face appeared at the door, a poor, unkempt-look- 
ing white fellow with a very dirty face. Ander- 
son cast a look over his shoulder at him and com- 
manded pompously : 

77 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Tek him to de kitchen an’ give him all he 
wants.” 

The fellow went away very humbly. 

In a few minutes Aunt Tempe opened the din- 
ing-room door and came in. 

‘‘An’erson,”’ she cried in a whisper. 

“Madam,” said the butler rising in dignity, 
“excuse me—but 

‘“Hyeah, don’t you come no foo’ishness wid 
me; I ain’t no madam. I’s tiahed playing fine 
lady. I done been out to de kitchen, an’ I don’ 
lak dat tramp’s face an’ fo’m.” 

“Well, madam,” said Anderson urbanely, ‘“‘we 
haven’t asked you to ma’y him.” 

At this there was a burst of laughter from the 
table. 

‘“‘Nemmine, nemmine, I tell you, I don’ lak 
dat tramp’s face an’ fo’m, an’ you’d bettah keep 
yo’ eye skinned, er you'll be laughin’ on de othah 
side o’ yo’ mouf.” 

The butler gently pushed the old lady out, but 
as the door closed behind her she was still saying, 
“T don’ lak dat tramp’s face an’ fo’m.” 

Unused to playing fine lady so long, Aunt 
Tempe deserted her charges and went back to 
the kitchen, but the “straggler man” had gone. 

78 


A Supper by Proxy 


It is a good thing she did not go around the 
veranda, where the windows of the dining-room 
opened, or she would have been considerably dis- 
turbed to see the tramp peeping through the 
blinds—evidently at the Mordaunt plate that 
sparkled conspicuously on the table. 

Anderson with his hand in his coat, quite after 
the manner of Stuart Mordaunt, made a brief 
speech in which he thanked his guests for the 
honor they had done him in coming to his humble 
home. “I know,” he said, “I have done my po’ 
bes’; but at some latah day I hopes to entertain 
you in a mannah dat de position an’ character of 
de gent’men hyeah assembled desuves. Let us 
now jine de ladies.” 

His hand was on the door and all the gentle- 
men were on their feet when suddenly the win- 
dow was thrown up and in stepped the straggler. 

“Wy, w’y, how daih you, suh, invade my 
p’emises?”’ asked Anderson, casting a withering 
glance at the intruder, who stood gazing around 
him. 

“Leave de room dis minute!’’ cried Julius, 
anxious to be in the fray. But the tramp’s eyes 
were fastened on Anderson. Finally he raised 
one finger and pointed at him. 

79 


In Old Plantation Days 


‘You old scoundrel,” he said in a well-known 
voice, as he snatched off his beard and wig and 
threw aside his disguising duster and stood before 
them. 

““Mas’ Stu’at!” 

“You old scoundrel, you! Ive caught you, 
have I?” 

Anderson was speechless and transfixed, but 
the others were not, and they had cleared that 
room before the master’s linen duster was well 
off. In a moment the shuffling of feet ceased and 
the lights went out in the parlor. The two stood 
there alone, facing each other. 

““Mas’ Stu’at.” 

“Silence,” said Mordaunt, raising his hand, 
and taking a step toward the trembling culprit. 

“Don’ hit me now, Mas’ Stu’at, don’ hit me 
ontwell I’s kin’ o’ shuk off yo’ pussonality. Ef 
you do, it’ll be des’ de same ez thumpin yo’se’f.” 

Mordaunt turned quickly and stood for a mo- 
ment looking through the window, but his shoul- 
ders shook. 

“Well,” he said, turning; “‘do you think you’ve 
at last relieved yourself of my personality ?” 

“I don’t know, I don’t know. De gyahment 
sho’ do fit monst’ous tight.” 

80 


A Supper by Proxy 


“Humph. You take my food, you take my 
wine, you take my cigars, and now even my per- 
sonality isn’t safe. 

‘Look here, what on earth do you mean by en- 
tertaining half the darkies in the county in my 
dining-room ?”’ 

Anderson scratched his head and thought. 
Then he said: “Well, look hyeah, Mas’ Stu’at, 
dis hyeah wasn’t rightly my suppah noways.”’ 

‘Not your supper! Whose was it!” 

arom.” 

“Mine?” 

‘*Yes, suh.”’ 

“Why, what’s the matter with you, Anderson? 
Next thing you'll be telling me that I planned it 
all, and invited all those servants.” 

“Lemme ’splain it, Mas’, lemme ’splain it. 
Now I didn’t give dat suppah as An’erson. I give 
it ez Mas’ Stu’at Mordaunt; an’ Quinn an’ Ike 
an’ Gidjon, dey didn’t come fu’ deyse’ves, dey 
come fu’ Mas’ Cu’tis, an’ Mas’ Dudley Stone. 
Don’ you un’erstan’, Mas’ Stu’at? We wasn’ 
we-all, we was you-all.” 

‘“That’s very plain; and in other words, I gave 
a supper by proxy, and all my friends responded 
in the same manner?” 

81 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Well, ef dat means what I said, dat’s it.” 

‘Your reasoning is extremely profound, An- 
derson. It does you great credit, but if I followed 
your plan I should give you the thrashing you 
deserve by proxy. That would just suit you. So 
instead of that I am going to feed you, for the 
next day or so, by that ingenious method. You 
go down and tell Jim that I want him up here 
early to-morrow morning to eat your breakfast.” 

“Oh, Mas’ Stu’at! Whup me, whup me, but 
don’t tell dose dahkies in de quahtahs, an’ don’t 
sta’ve me!” For Anderson loved the good 
things of life. 

Go.” 

Anderson went, and Mordaunt gave himself 
up to mirth. 

The quarters got their laugh out of Ander- 
son’s discomfiture. Jim lived high for a day, 
but rumors from the kitchen say that the butler 
did not really suffer on account of his supper by 
proxy. 


82 


THE TROUBLE ABOUT SOPHINY. 


Always on the plantation there had been 
rivalry between Julius, the coachman, and An- 
derson, the butler, for social leadership. Mostly 
it had been good-natured, with now and then a 
somewhat sharper contest when occasion de- 
manded it. Mostly, too, Anderson had come off 
victorious on account of certain emoluments, hon- 
estly or dishonestly come by, that followed his 
position. Now, however, they were at logger- 
heads and there seemed no possible way to settle 
the matter in the usual amicable manner. An- 
derson swore dire things against Julius, and the 
latter would be satisfied with nothing less than 
his enemy’s destruction. ‘There was no use in 
the peacemakers on the plantation trying to bring 
them together. They were sworn enemies and 
would have none of it. In fact, there was no 
way to adjudicate the affair, for it concerned no 
less a matter than who should have the right to 
take Miss Sophiny to the great ball that was to 
be given in her honor. 

Perhaps you do not know that Miss Sophiny 
was maid to Mistress Fairfax, who was now on 

83 


In Old Plantation Days 


a visit to the Mordaunt plantation, and in the 
whole State the prettiest girl, black, brown, or 
yellow that had ever tossed her head, imitated 
her mistress and set her admirers wild. She was 
that entrancing color between brown and yellow 
which is light brown if you are pleasant and 
gingerbread if you want to hurt a body’s feel- 
ings. Also, Sophiny had lustrous, big black eyes 
that had learned from her mistress the trick of 
being tender or languishing at their owner’s will. 

Mistress Fairfax and her maid had not been 
on the grounds a day before they had disrupted 
the whole plantation. 

From the very first, Julius had paid the brown 
damsel devoted court. In fact, as the coachman, 
he had driven up from the station with her mis- 
tress and had the first chance to show her his 
gallantry. It is true that Anderson came into 
the lists immediately after, and found a dainty 
for her even before he had served her mistress, 
but it could not be denied that he was after 
Julius, and it was upon his priority of attention 
that the coachman based his claim to present 
precedence. 

For days the contest between the two men was 
pretty balanced. Julius walked down the quar- 

84 


The Trouble About Sophiny 


ters’ road with her, but Anderson stood talking 
with her on the back veranda for nearly an 
hour. She went to the stables with the coach- 
man to look over the horses, in which he took a 
special pride; but she dropped into the butler’s 
pantry to try his latest confection. She laughed 
at a joke by Julius, but said ‘‘You’re right” to a 
wise remark that Anderson made. Altogether, 
their honors seemed dangerously even. 

Then the big house gave the grand ball for 
Mistress Fairfax, and the servants’ quarters 
could hardly wait to follow their example in giv- 
ing something for the maid. It was here that 
the trouble arose. Their ball was to be a great 
affair. It was to be given in the largest of the 
cabins, and field and house were to unite to do 
honor to the fair one. But the question was: 
Who was to have the honor of escorting her to 
the ball? 

Now it might be supposed that under ordinary 
circumstances such a matter would be left to the 
personal preference of the lady most concerned; 
but that is just where the observer makes his first 
mistake. His premise is wrong. ‘This was no 
ordinary matter. Had the lady shown any de- 
cided preference for either one or the other of 

85 


In Old Plantation Days 


her suitors; had either even the shade of a hair 
an advantage over the other, it would all have 
been different. It would have resolved itself 
merely into a trial of personal influence and the 
vanquished would have laughed with his victor. 
But it was not so. Miss Sophiny had treated 
them both painfully alike. The one who took 
the lady would gain a distinct advantage over 
his fellow, and this must not be left to chance. 
They must settle outside their charmer’s knowl- 
edge once and for all as to which should ask and, 
as a consequence, be her escort. 

Now it was at this time that the mirth-loving 
master, Stuart Mordaunt, took note of the affair. 
He saw that there was bad feeling between his 
butler and his coachman, and he was not long in 
finding out the cause thereof. There were many 
with the story waiting on their lips and anxious 
to tellhim. The little tale filled Mordaunt with 
mischievous joy. He hurried to the house with 
the news that there was trouble on the planta- 
tion. 

‘Look a-here, Miss Caroline,” he said to his 
visitor, “I had no idea your coming was going 
to cause such a commotion on my place. Why, | 
really believe that I’m threatened with an upris- 

86 


The Trouble About Sophiny 


ing, and all about that maid of yours. It’s really 
doubtful whether we shall be able to drive any- 
where, and I am beginning to tremble for the 
serving of my meals, for all the trouble seems to 
center in my coachman and my butler.” 

‘Now, tell me, Mr. Stuart, what has that girl 
been doing now? Honestly, she’s the plague of 
my life.”’ 

“Oh, no more than her mistress did last win- 
ter down at the capitol. It’s really remarkable 
what a lot of human nature horses and niggers 
have.” 

“Aren’t you ashamed of yourself, Mr. Mor- 
daunt? Pray, what did I do last winter at the 
capitol ?” 

‘The whole case is as bad as it was between 
Captain Carter and Willis Breckinridge, and 
I’m expecting the affair of honor between Julius 
and Anderson at any time. If you hear the sud- 
den report of pistols you may all just know what 
it is and thank your maid Sophiny for bringing 
it about.” 

Miss Caroline laughed heartily at her host’s 
bantering, but he went on in a tone of mock 
seriousness, ‘‘You may laugh, now, my lady, but 
I’ll warrant you’ll sing another tune if you have 

87 


In Old Plantation Days 


to go walking about this place or perchance have 
to set to work some of you and get your own 
dinners; and that’s what it will come to if this 
matter goes on much longer.” 


The rivalry between the two servants had now 
run its course for some time, and as neither man 
seemed disposed to yield, it threatened to ruin 
the whole entertainment, which had been post- 
poned from time to time to allow of an adjust- 
ment of the matter. Finally, when that night of 
pleasure was too visibly menaced, Jim, the un- 
regenerate, came forward with a solution of the 
problem. ‘‘Why,” he argued, “should Julius 
and Anderson be allowed to spoil the good time 
of the whole plantation by their personal dis- 
agreements and bickerings? What was it to the 
rest of them, who took Miss Sophiny, so she 
came and they had their dance? If the two must 
differ, why not differ like men and fight it out? 
Then, the one that whipped had the right to take 
the young lady.’ Jim was primitive. He was 
very close to nature. He did not argue it out in 
just these words, but his fellows took his mean- 
ing, and they said, ‘““That’s so.” 

Now, neither Julius nor Anderson much fa- 
vored the idea of fighting. Each wanted to save 

88 


The Trouble About Sophiny 


himself and look his best on the momentous 
night. But the fact that unless the matter were 
soon settled there would be no such night, and 
because the force of opinion all around pressed 
them, they accepted Jim’s solution of the prob- 
lem and decided to fight out their differences. 

Meanwhile there was an unholy twinkle in the 
eye of Miss Sophiny. She was not unmindful of 
all that was going on, but she kept her counsel. 

Neither Julius nor his fellow servant was in 
particularly good fighting trim. One had been 
stiffened by long hours, both in winter and sum- 
mer upon the carriage. ‘The other had been 
softened by being much in the house and by over 
feeding. But as their disadvantages were equal 
these could not justly be taken into account and 
so are passed over. 

As the plantation was manifesting a growing 
impatience for its festivities and the visitor’s stay 
was drawing to a close, they set the time for the 
encounter on the night after the matter was pro- 
posed. It was soon, but not too soon for some 
solicitous one to inform the master of what was 
going on. 

The place chosen was one remote from the big 
house and behind an old dismantled smoke-house 

89 


In Old Plantation Days 


in which the card games were usually played of 
a Sunday. At the appointed time, the few who 
were in the secret gathered and formed a ring 
about the rivals, who faced each other stripped 
to the waist. There was not a great show of 
confidence or eagerness in their bearing, and 
there would have been less could they have 
known that their master with Miss Caroline and 
several members of the family were hiding just 
around the corner of the smoke-house, convulsed 
with laughter. 

The two men were a funny sight as they stood 
there in the ring fearfully facing each other. 
Julius was tall and raw-boned, while Anderson 
was short and fat from much feeding. When the 
preliminaries were all arranged the fight began 
without further ceremony. Julius led with a 
heavy awkward blow that caught his opponent 
just above where the belt should have been, and 
Anderson grunted with a sound like a half-filled 
varrel. This was enough. The blow was im- 
mediately returned by the butler’s bending his 
head and butting his rival quickly and resound- 
ingly. Before he could recover his upright posi- 
tion, however, the tall coachman had caught him 
under his arm and was trying to work havoc on 

90 


The Trouble About Sophiny 


his woolly pate. For a few minutes they danced 
around in this position, for all the world like 
two roosters when one shields his head under the 
other’s wing. 

“Brek aloose,” cried Jim, excitedly, “‘brek 
aloose, dat ain’t no fist fightin’.” 

The men separated and began to pummel each 
other at a distance and in good earnest. Ander- 
son’s nose was bleeding, and Julius’ eye was 
closed to earthly scenes. They were both pant- 
ing like engines. 

At this juncture, thinking it had gone far 
enough, Mordaunt, with much ado to keep his 
face straight, emerged from behind the smoke- 
house. At first the combatants did not see him, 
so busily were they engaged, but the sound of 
scurrying feet as their spectators fled the scene, 
called them to themselves and they turned to 
meet the eyes of their master fixed upon them 
with a sternness that it was all he could do to 
maintain. 

“Well, you are a pretty pair. Here, what is 
the meaning of this?” 

The two men hung their heads. A giggle, 
pretty well-defined, came from behind the smoke- 
house, and they became aware that their master 

oI 


In Old Plantation Days 


was not alone. They were covered with con- 
fusion. 

‘“Get into your coats.’’ They hustled into their 
garments. ‘‘Now tell me what is the meaning of 
this?” 

‘We was des’ a fightin’ a little,” said Julius, 
sheepishly. 

“Just for fun, I suppose ?” 

No answer: 

“T say, just for fun?” 

“Well, I seen huh fust,” Julius broke out like 
a big boy. 

‘Don’ keer ef yo’ did, I did mo’ talkin’ to 
huh, an’ I got de right to tek huh to th’ pa’ty, 
dat’s what I have.” 

“Well, you’re a pretty pair,” repeated the 
master. ‘‘Has it ever occurred to you that 
Sophiny herself might have something to say as 
to who went with her?” 

“Well, dat’s des’ what I say, but Julius he 
want to ax huh fus’ an’ so does I.”’ 

“Anderson, I’m ashamed of you. Why ain’t 
you got sense enough to go together and ask her, 
and so settle the matter peacefully? If it wasn’t 
for the rest of the hands you should not have any 
dance at all. Now take yourselves to the house 

92 


The Trouble About Sophiny 


and don’t let me hear any more of this busi- 
ness.” 

Mordaunt turned quickly on his heel as the 
combatants slipped away. His gravity had stood 
all that it could. As soon as he had joined the 
others he broke into a peal of laughter in which 
Miss Caroline and the rest joined him. 

“Oh, you women,” he exclaimed, ‘‘didn’t I 
warn you that we should have an affair of honor 
on our hands? It’s worse, positively worse than 
Carter and Breckinridge.” 

“Yes, it is worse,’ assented Miss Caroline, 
mischievously, ‘‘for in this encounter some blood 
was drawn,” and they took their way merrily to 
the house. 

Julius and Anderson were both glad of the 
relief that their master had brought to them and 
of the expedient he had urged for getting around 
their difficulty. They talked amicably of the 
plan as they pursued their way. 

“T’ll go fix my eye an’ yo’ ten’ to yo’ nose, an’ 
den we’ll go an’ see Miss Sophiny togethah des’ 
lak Mas’ says.” 

“All right, [’ll be ready in a minute.” 

When they had somewhat repaired the dam- 
age to their countenances the coachman and the 

93 


In Old Plantation Days 


butler together set out to find the object of their 
hearts’ desire. Together, each one fearing to let 
the other talk too much, they laid their case be- 
fore her. 

Sophiny sat on the step of the back porch and 
swung one slender foot temptingly down and out- 
ward. She listened to them with a smile on her 
face. When they were through she laughed 
lightly and said, ‘“‘Why, la, gentlemen, I done 
p’omised Mistah Sam long ’go. He axed me 
soon’s he hyeahed "bout it!’ Then she laughed 
again. 

Sam was a big field hand and not at all in the 
coachman’s and the butler’s social set. They 
turned away from the siren in silence and when 
they were some distance off they solemnly shook 
hands. 


94 


MR. GROBY’S SLIPPERY GIFT. 


Two men could hardly have been more unlike 
than Jim and Joe Mordaunt, and when it is 
considered that they were brothers brought up 
under the same conditions and trained by the 
same hand, this dissimilarity seems nothing less 
than remarkable. Jim was the older, and a 
better, steadier-going hand Stuart Mordaunt did 
not own upon the place, while a lazier, more un- 
reliable scamp than Joe could not have been 
found within a radius of fifty miles. 

The former was the leader in all good works, 
while the latter was at the head of every bit of 
deviltry. that harassed the plantation. Every 
one recognized the difference between these two, 
and they themselves did not ignore it. 

‘Jim, he’s de ’ligious pa’t o’ de fambly,” Joe 
liscd.to say, “an 4s moct.o dees o it. He 
looked upon his brother with a sort of patroniz- 
ing condescension, as if his own wickedness in 
some manner dignified him; but nevertheless, the 
two were bound together by a rough but strong 
affection. The wicked one had once almost 
whipped a fellow-servant to death for saying 

95 


In Old Plantation Days 


that his brother couldn’t out-pray the preacher. 
They were both field hands, and while Jim went 
his way and did his work rejoicing, Joe was the 
bane of the overseer’s life. He would seize every 
possible chance of shirking, and it was his stand- 
ing boast that he worked less and ate more than 
any other man on the place. 

It was especially irritating to his master, be- 
cause he was a fine-appearing fellow, with arms 
like steel bars, and the strength of a giant. It 
was this strength and a certain reckless spirit 
about him that kept the overseer from laying 
the lash to his back. It was better to let Joe 
shirk than to make him desperate, thought Mr. 
Groby. In his employer’s dilemma, however, he 
suggested starvation as a very salutary measure, 
but was met with such an angry response that he 
immediately apologized. Stuart Mordaunt, 
while rejecting his employee’s methods, yet 
looked to him to work an amendment in Joe’s 
career. “For,” said he, “that rascal will corrupt 
the whole plantation. Joe literally carries out 
the idea that he doesn’t have to work, and is 
there a servant on the place who will work if he 
thinks he doesn’t have to?” 

“Yes, one—Joe’s brother Jim,” said the over- 

06 


Mr. Groby’s Slippery Gift 


seer, grinning. ‘‘He’s what a nigger ought to be 
—as steady and as tireless as an ox.” 

‘It’s a wonder that brother of his hasn’t cor- 
rupted him.” 

‘Jim ain’t got sense enough to be corrupted 
as long as he gets his feed.” 

‘Maybe he’s got too much sense,” returned 
the master coldly. ‘But do you think that Joe 
really has notions?” 

“Notions of freedom? No. He’s like a balky 
horse. He'll stand in his tracks until you beat 
the life out of him, but he isn’t the kind to run 
away. It would take too much exertion.” 

“T wish to Heaven he would run off!” said 
Mordaunt impatiently. “It would save me a 
deal of trouble. I don’t want to deal harshly 
with him, but neither do I want the whole planta- 
tion stirred up.” 

“Why don’t you seli him?” 

Stuart Mordaunt’s eyes flashed up at the over- 
seer as he replied: “I haven’t got down to sell- 
ing my niggers down the river yet.” 

“Needn’t sell him down the river. Sell him 

” 

“I’m no nigger-trader,” the gentleman broke 
in. 

97 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Listen to me,” said Mr. Groby, insinuat- 
ingly. ‘My wife wants a good servant up at 
our house, and I’d be willing to take Joe off your 
hands. I think I could manage him.” He 
looked for the moment as if he might manage 
the slave to the poor fellow’s sorrow. 

“But would you keep him right about here so 
that I could look after him if he got into trou- 
ble?” 

“Certainly,” said Mr. Groby, jingling the 
coins in his pocket. 

“Then [ll give him to you,” said Mordaunt 
coldly. 

“TI don’t ask that; I ” 

“T do not sell, I believe I told you. I'll give 
him to you.” 

The overseer laughed quietly when his em- 
ployer was gone. ‘Oh, yes,” he said to himself, 
“T think I can manage Joe when he’s mine.” 

“T don’t believe I ought to have done that,” 
mused the master as he went his way. 

Joe did not know what had happened until 


the papers transferring him were made out and 
Groby came and read them to him. 


“You see, Joe,” he said, “you're mine. - I’ve 
wanted you for a long time. I’ve always 
98 


Mr. Groby’s Slippery Gift 


thought that if you belonged to me I could make 
a good hand out of you. You see, Joe, I’ve got 
no sentiments. Of course you don’t know what 
sentiments are, but you'll understand later. I 
feel as if I can increase your worth to the world,” 
and Mr. Groby rubbed his hands and smiled. 

The black man said nothing, but at night, 
humble and pleading, he went to see his old mas- 
ter. When Stuart Mordaunt saw him coming 
he did not feel altogether easy in his mind, but 
he tried to comfort himself by affecting to believe 
that Joe would be pleased. 

“Well, Joe,” he said, “I suppose you'll be glad 
to get away from the field ?” 

“Glad to git erway—oh, mastah!’’ He sud- 
denly knelt and threw his arms about his master’s 
knees. ‘“‘Oh, Mas’ Stua’t,” he cried, ‘‘don’ gi’ 
me to dat Mistah Groby; don’ do it! I want to 
wo’k fu’ you all de days o’ my life. Don’ gi’ 
me to dat man!” 

“Why, Joe, you never have been anxious be- 
fore to work for me.” 

‘Mas’ Stua’t, I knows I ain’ been doin’ right. 
I ain’ been wo’kin’, but I will wo’k. Tl dig my 
fingahs to de bone; but don’ gi’ me to dat man.” 

99 


In Old Plantation Days 


‘But, Joe, you don’t understand. You'll have 
a good home, easier work, and more time to 
yourself—almost the same as if you were up to 
the big house.” 

This was every field-hand’s ambition, and 
Stuart Mordaunt thought that his argument 
would silence the refractory servant, but Joe was 
not to be silenced so. He raised his head and 
his black face was twitching with emotion. “I’d 
ravver be yo’ fiel’-han’ dan dat man Groby’s 
mastah.”’ 

Mordaunt was touched, but his determination 
was not altered. “But he’ll be good to you, don’t 
you know that?” 

“Good to me, good to me! Mas’ Stua’t, you 
don’ know dat man!” 

The master turned away. He had a certain 
discipline to keep on his place, and he knew it. 
“Perhaps I don’t know him,” he said, “but what 
I don’t see with my own eyes I can’t spy out with 
the eyes of my servants. Joe, you may go. I 
have given my word, and I could not go back 
even if I would. Bea good boy and you'll get 
along all right. Come to see me often.” 

The black man seized his master’s hand and 
pressed it. Great fellow as he was, when he 


100 


Mr. Groby’s Slippery Gift 


left he was sobbing like a child. He was to stay 
in the quarters that night and the next morning 
leave the fields and enter the service of Mrs. 
Groby. 

It was a sad time for him. As he sat by the 
hearth, his face bowed in his hands, Jim reached 
over and slapped him on the head. It was as 
near to an expression of affection and sympathy 
as he could come. But his brother looked up 
with the tears shining in his eyes, and Jim, taking 
his pipe from his mouth, passed it over in silence, 
and they sat brooding until Mely took a piece of 
“‘middlin’ ”’ off the coals for brother Joe. 

When she had gone to bed the two men talked 
long, but it was not until she was snoring con- 
tentedly and the dogs were howling in the yard 
and the moon had gone down behind the trees 
that Mr. Groby’s acquisition slipped out of the 
cabin and away to the woods, bearing with him 
his brother’s blessing and breakfast. 

It was near eleven o’clock the next morning 
when the overseer came to the big house, fuming 
and waving his papers in his hands. He was 
looking for his slave. But the big house did not 
know where he was any more than did the quar- 
ters, and he went away disappointed and furious. 


IoI 


In Old Plantation Days 


Joe had rebelled. He had called the dark 
night to his aid and it had swallowed him up. 
Against Mordaunt’s remonstrances, the new- 


made master insisted upon putting the hounds 
on the negro’s track; but they came back bafiled. 


Joe knew Mr. Groby’s methods and had pre- 
pared for them. 

“Tt was a slippery gift you gave me, Mr. 
Mordaunt,” said the overseer on the third day 
after Joe’s escape. 

“Even a slippery gift shouldn’t get out of 
rough hands, Groby,” answered Mordaunt, ‘‘and 
from what I hear your hands are rough enough.” 

“And they’d be rougher now if I had that 
black whelp here.” 

“Tm glad Joe’s gone,” mused Stuart Mor- 
daunt as he looked at the overseer’s retreating 
figure. ‘‘Hle was lazy and devilish, but Groby 

It was just after that that Parker, the planta- 
tion exhorter, reported the backsliding of Jim. 
His first fall from grace consisted in his going to 
a dance. This was bad enough, but what was 
worse, although the festivities closed at mid- 
night, Jim—and his wife Mely told it, too—did 
not reach his cabin until nearly daylight. Of 


102 


Mr. Groby’s Slippery Gift 


course she was uneasy about it. That was quite 
natural. ‘There were so many dashing girls on 
the plantations, within a radius of ten or twelve 
miles, that no woman’s husband was safe. So 
she went to the minister about it, as women will 
about their troubles, and the minister went to his 
master. 

‘Let him alone,”’ said Stuart Mordaunt. ‘His 
brother’s absence has upset him, but Jim’ll come 
round all right.” 

‘But, mastah,” said old Parker, pushing back 
his bone-bowed spectacles, ‘‘dat uz mighty late 
fu’ Jim to be gittin’ in—nigh daylight—ez stiddy 
a man ez he is. Don’t you reckon dey’s a ’ooman 
fot Lialdeg 

“Look here, Parker,” said his master; ‘‘aren’t 
you ashamed of yourself? Have you ever known 
Jim to go with any other woman than Mely? If 
you preachers weren’t such rascals yourselves and 
married less frequently you wouldn’t be so ready 
to suspect other men.” 

“Ahem!” coughed Parker. ‘Well, Mas’ 
Stua’t, ef you gwineter question inter de p’oga- 
tives o’ de ministry, I’d bettah be gwine, case 
you on dang’ous groun’,”’ and he went his way. 


103 


In Old Plantation Days 


But even an indulgent master’s patience must 
wear out when a usually good servant lapses into 
unusually bad habits. Jim was often absent 
from the plantation now, and things began to 
disappear: chickens, ducks, geese, and even Jim’s 
own family bacon, and now and then a shoat of 
the master’s found its way off the place. 

The thefts could be traced to but one source. 
Mely didn’t mind the shoats, nor the ducks, nor 
the geese, nor the chickens—they were her mas- 
ter’s, and he could afford to lose them—but that 
her husband should steal hers and the children’s 
food—it was unspeakable. She caught him red- 
handed once, stealing away with a side of bacon, 
and she upbraided him loud and long. 

“Oh, you low-down scoun’el,’? she screamed, 
“‘stealin’ de braid outen yo’ chillun’s moufs fu’ 
some othah ’ooman!”’ 

Jim, a man of few words, stood silent and 
abashed, and his very silence drove her to des- 
peration. She went to her master, and the next 
day the culprit was called up. 

“Jim,” said Mordaunt, “I want to be as easy 
with you as I can. You've always been a good 
servant, and I believe that it’s your brother’s 
doings that have got you off the handle. But 


104 


Mr. Groby’s Slippery Gift 


I’ve borne with you week after week, and I can’t 
stand it any longer. So mark my words: if I 
hear another complaint Pll have you skinned; 
do you hear me?” 

> Les, Suh.” 

That night Jim stole a ham from the kitchen 
before Aunt Doshy’s very eyes. When they told 
the master in the morning he was furious. He 
ordered that the thief be brought before him, 
and two whippers with stout corded lashes in 
their hands stood over the black man’s back. 

“What’s the matter with you, anyhow?” 
roared Mordaunt. “Are you bound todefyme?” 

Jim did not answer. 

“Will you answer me?” cried the master. 

Still Jim was silent. 

“Who is this woman you’re stealing for?” 

‘*Ain’t stealin’ fu’ no ooman.” 

“Don’t lie to me. Will you tell?” 

Silence. 

“Do you hear me? Lay it on him! I'll see 
whether he’ll talk!” 

The lashes rose in the air and whizzed down. 
They rose again, but stopped poised as a gaunt 
figure coming from nowhere, it seemed, stalked 
up and pushed the whippers aside. 


105 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Give it to me,’’ said Joe, taking off his coat. 
“T told him jes’ how it would be, an’ I was comin’ 
in to gi’ myse’f up anyhow. He done it all to 
keep me f’om sta’vin’; but I’s done hidin’ now. 
I'll be dat Groby’s slave ravver dan let him tek 
my blows.” He ceased speaking and slipped 
out of his ragged shirt. ‘ ’Tain’t no use, Jim,” 
he added, ‘‘you’s done all you could.” 

“Dah, now, Joe,” said his brother in disgust, 
‘‘you’s done come hyeah an’ sp’iled evaht’ing; 
you nevah did know yo’ place.” 

“Whup away,” said Joe. 

But the master’s hand went up. 

“Joe! he cried. ‘‘Jim, you—you’ve been tak- 
ing that food to him! Why didn’t you tell me?” 
He kicked each one of the whippers solemnly, 
then he kicked Joe. ‘‘Get out of this,” he said. 
“You'll be nobody’s but mine. I’ll buy you from 
Groby, you low-down, no-account scoundrel.” 
Then he turned and looked down on Jim. “Oh, 
you fool nigger—God bless you.” 

When Mr. Groby heard of Joe’s return he 
hastened up to the big house. He was elated. 

“Ha,” he said, ‘“‘my man has returned.” 

Stuart Mordaunt looked unpleasant, then he 
said: ‘Your man, Mr. Groby, your man, as you 

106 


Mr. Groby’s Slippery Gift 


call him, has returned. He is here. But, sir, 
your man has been redeemed by his brother’s 
vicarious suffering, and I intend—lI intend to 
buy Joe back. Please name your price.” 

And Mr. Groby saw the look in the gentle- 
man’s eye and made his price low. 


107 


ASH-CAKE HANNAH AND HER BEN. 


Christmas Eve had come, and the cold, keen 
air with just a hint of dampness in it gave prom- 
ise of the blessing of a white Christmas. A few 
flakes began sifting slowly down, and at sight of 
them a dozen pairs of white eyes flashed, and a 
dozen negro hearts beat more quickly. It was 
not long before the sound of grinding axes was 
heard and the dogs barked a chorus to the grind- 
stones’ song, for they, wise fellows that they 
were, knew what the bright glint of the steel 
meant. ‘They knew, too, why Jake and Ike and 
Joe whistled so merrily, and looked over at the 
distant woods with half-shut eyes and smiled. 

Already the overseers were relaxing their vig- 
ilance, the quarters were falling into indolence, 
and the master was guarding the key of a well- 
filled closet. 

Negro Tom was tuning up his fiddle in the 
barn, and Blophus, with his banjo, was getting 
the chords from him, while Alec was away out in 
the woods with his face turned up to the gray 
sky, letting the kinks out of his tenor voice. All 
this because the night was coming on. Christmas 

108 


Ash-Cake Hannah and Her Ben 


Eve night was the beginning of a week of joy. 
The wind freshened and the snow fell faster. 
The walks were covered. Old gnarled logs that 
had lain about, black and forbidding, became 
things of beauty. The world was a white glory. 
Slowly, so slowly for a winter’s night, the lights 
faded out and the lamps and candles and torches 
like lowly stars laughed from the windows of 
big house and cabin. In fireplaces great and 
small the hickory crackled, and the savory smell 
of cooking arose, tempting, persistent. The 
lights at the big house winked at the cabin, and 
the cabin windows winked back again. Laugh- 
ter trickled down the night and good cheer was 
everywhere. Everywhere, save in one room, 
where Hannah—Ash-Cake Hannah, they called 
her—-sat alone by her smouldering hearth, brush- 
ing the cinders from her fresh-baked cake, mum- 
bling to herself. 

For her there was no Christmas cheer. There 
were only her dim, lonely cabin and the ash-cov- 
ered hearth. While the others rejoiced she 
moaned, for she had taken as a husband a slave 
on a distant plantation, whose master was a hard 
man, and on many a Christmas he had refused 
permission to Ben to go and see his wife. So 


109 


In Old Plantation Days 


each year, as soon as Christmas Eve came, Han- 
nah began to mope and fast, eating nothing but 
ash-cake until she knew whether or not Ben was 
coming. If he came, she turned to and laughed 
and made merry with the rest. If he did not, 
her sorrow and meagre fare lasted the week out, 
and she went back to her work with a heavy 
heart and no store of brightness for the coming 
year. To-day she sat, as usual, mumbling and 
moaning, for the night was drawing down, and 
no sign of Ben. 

Outside the negroes from the quarters, dressed 
in their best, were gathering into line, two by 
two, to march to the big house, where every 
Christmas they received their presents. There 
was much pushing and giggling, with ever and 
anon an admonitory word from one of the older 
heads, as they caught some fellow’s arm making 
free with a girl’s waist. Finally, when darkness 
had completely come, they started briskly away 
to the tune of a marching song. As they neared 
and passed Hannah’s cabin they lowered their 
voices out of respect to the sorrow they knew she 
was undergoing. But once beyond it they broke 
out with fresh gusto, stamping or tripping along 
through the damp snow like so many happy chil- 


IIo 


Ash-Cake Hannah and Her Ben 


dren. ‘Then, as they neared the steps of the 
great house, the doors were thrown wide and a 
flood of yellow light flowed out upon the throng 
of eager faces. With their halting the march- 
ing song was stopped, and instantly a mellow 
voice swung into a Christmas hymn, one of their 
own rude spirituals: 

Oh, moughty day at Bethlehem, 

Who dat layin’ in de manger? 

De town, hit full, dey ain’t no room; 

Who dat layin’ in de manger? 

The old master had come forward to the front 
of the piazza and around him clustered his fam- 
ily and guests, listening with admiration to the 
full, rich chorus. When it was done the negroes 
filed through the hall, one by one, each with a 
““Me’y Chris’mus” and each receiving some to- 
ken from the master and mistress. Laughing, 
joking, bantering, they went out to their holi- 
days, some to their cabins to dance or eat, others 
to the woods with the dogs and the newly sharp- 
ened axes to look for game. One of the women 
stopped at Hannah’s cabin with the gift for 
which she so seldom came. At her knock the 
lone watcher sprang up and flung the door wide, 


but sank down again with a groan at sight of the 
IIt 


In Old Plantation Days 


visitor. She did not even open the things which 
the messenger laid upon the bed, but bent again 
over her cheerless hearth. 

The sound of merriment and song were dy- 
ing away within the neighboring huts when her 
door was thrown suddenly open again and a 
huge negro stood before Ash-Cake Hannah. 
The slightly nibbled cake was hurled into a dark 
corner, and the woman sprang up with a heart- 
cry: “Ben!” She threw her arms about his neck 
and burst into happy tears, while Ben held her, 
grinned sheepishly, and kept glancing furtively 
toward the door. 

yon sh, hetsaid, 

“What I want o’ ’sh fu’, w’en you’s hyeah, 
Ben? I got a min’ to hollah,” she answered, 
laughing and crying. 

* Shy.’sh,” he repeated» “Ps unto: 

She stopped, and stood staring at him with 
wide, scared eyes. 

‘“You’s run off?” she echoed. 

“Yes, Mas’ Mason wouldn’t let me come, so I 
tuk my chanst an’ come anyhow.” 

“Oh, Ben, he'll mos’ nigh kill you.” 

“T knows it, but I don’ keer. It ’uz Chris’mus 
an’ I was boun’ to see you.” 


Ii2 


«| NAG, | ANO-LUVaH 
V HLIIM da ONVadS NVWOM AHL GNv— 


pert d 


Ash-Cake Hannah and Her Ben 


The woman fell to crying again, but he pat- 
ted her shoulder, saying: “* ’Tain’t no use to cry, 
Hannah. Hit’s des’ wastin’ time. I got to pay 
fu’ dis runnin’ off anyhow, so I’d des’ ez well 
have ez good a time ez | kin while hit las’. Fix 
me some suppah, an’ den we’ll go roun’ a little 
an’ see de folks.” 

As they went out the deadened sound of mer- 
riment came to them from the cabins. 

“T don’ know ez I ought to show myse’f des’ 
now,’ said Ben stealthily, as they neared one of 
the places where the fun was at its height. ‘Ef 
I should tek a notion to go back, I mought git in 
widout Mas’ Mason knowin’ I been gone, 
*dough he moughty sha’p-eyed.”’ 

‘‘Le’s des stan’ outside hyeah, den, an, hol’ 
han’s an’ listen; dat’ll be enough fu’ me, seein’ 
you’s hyeah.” 

They stationed themselves outside a cabin win- 
dow whose shutter was thrown wide open to ad- 
mit the air. Here they could see and listen to 
all that went on within. To them it was like 
starving within sight of food. ‘Their hearts 
yearned to be enjoying themselves with their 
kind. But they only clutched each other’s hands 
the tighter, and stood there in the square of yel- 

113 


In Old Plantation Days 


low light thrown out by the candles and fat pine 
torches, drinking in all they could of the forbid- 
den pleasures. 

Now they were dancing to the tum-tum of a 
banjo and the scraping of a fiddle, and Ben’s 
toes tingled to be shuffling. After the dance 
there would be a supper. Already a well-defined 
odor was arising from a sort of rude lean-to be- 
hind the cabin. The smell was rich and warm 
and sweet. 

“What is dat, Hannah?” asked Ben. ‘Hit 
smell monst’ous familiah.” 

“Fit’s sweet ’taters, dat’s what it is.”’ 


Ben turned on her an agonized look. “Hit’s 
” 


sweet ’taters, an’ p His lips were pouted 
to say the word, but it was too much for him. He 
interrupted himself in an attempt to pronounce 
that juicy, seductive, unctuous word, “‘possum,”’ 
and started for the door, exclaiming: “‘ Come 
on, Hannah; I’d des’ ez well die fu’ an ol’ sheep 
ez fu’ a lamb;” and in a moment he was being 
welcomed by the surprised dancers. 

Ben and Hannah were soon in the very midst 
of the gayety. 

114 


Ash-Cake Hannah and Her Ben 


“No ash-cake fu’ Hannah dis Chris’mus!” 
shouted some one as he passed the happy woman 
in the dance. 

Hannah’s voice rang loud and clear through 
the room as she courtesied to her husband and 
answered: ‘“‘No, indeed, honey; Hannah gwine 
live off’en de fat 0’ de lan’ dis hyeah Chris’mus.”’ 

In a little while Fullerton, the master, came to 
the cabin with some of his friends who wanted 
to enjoy looking on at the negroes’ pleasure. 
This was the signal for the wildest pranks, the 
most fantastic dancing and a general period of 
showing off. The happy-go-lucky people were 
like so many children released from their tasks. 
The more loudly their visitors applauded the 
gayer they became. ‘They clapped their hands, 
they slapped their knees. They leaped and ca- 
pered. And among them, no one was lighter- 
hearted than Ben. He had forgotten what lay 
in store for him, and his antics kept the room in 
a roar. 

Fullerton had seen him and had expressed the 
belief that Ben had run away, for Mason Tyler 
would hardly have let him come without sending 
with him a pass; but he took it easily, glad to see 

Ts 


In Old Plantation Days 


Hannah enjoying herself, and no longer forced 
to moan and fast. 

For a brief space the dancers had rested. 
Then the music struck up again. They had made 
their “’bejunce” and were swinging corners, 
when suddenly the clatter of horses’ hoofs broke 
in on the rhythm of the music, which stopped 
with a discord. The people stood startled and 
expectant, each in the attitude in which he had 
stopped. Ben was grinning sheepishly and scrap- 
ing his foot on the floor. All at once he remem- 
bered. 

With a cry, Hannah ran across the room and 
threw herself at her master’s feet. “Oh, Mas’ 
Jack,” she begged, ‘“‘don’ let Mas’ Mason Tyler 
whup Ben! He runned off to be wid me.” 

Sh,” said Fullerton quickly; “I'll do what 
Deans 

In another moment the door was flung open 
and Mason Tyler, a big, gruff-looking fellow 
with a face red with anger, stood in the door- 
way. Over his shoulder peeped two negroes. 
He had a stout whip in his hand. 

“Is my—oh, there you are, you black hound. 
Come here; I’m going to larrup you within an 
inch of your life.” 

116 


Ash-Cake Hannah and Her Ben 


“Good evening, Mr. Tyler,” broke in Fuller- 
ton’s smooth voice. 

“Oh, good-evening, Mr. Fullerton. You 
must excuse me; I was so taken up with that 
black hound that I forgot my manners.” 

Fullerton proceeded to introduce his friends. 
Tyler met them grufily. 

“Ben, here,’’ he proceeded, ‘‘has taken it into 
his head that he is his own master.” 

“Oh, well, these things will happen about 
Christmas time, and you must overlook them.” 

“Nobody need tell me how to run my place.” 

“Certainly not, but I’ve a sort of interest in 
Ben on Hannah’s account. However, we won’t 
talk of it. Come to the house, and let me offer 
you some refreshment.” 

“T haven’t time.” 

“My friends will think very badly of you 
if you don’t join us in one holiday glass at 
least.” 

Tyler’s eyes glistened. He loved his glass. 
He turned irresolutely. 

“Oh, leave Ben here for the little time you'll 
be with us. I'll vouch for him.” 

Mellowed already by pleasant anticipations, 
Mason Tyler allowed himself to be persuaded, 

117 


In Old Plantation Days 


and setting the two negroes who accompanied 
him to watch Ben, he went away to the big house. 

It was perhaps two hours later when a negro 
groom was sent to bed Tyler’s horse for the 
night, while one of his own servants was dis- 
patched to tell his family that he could not be 
home that night. 

Ben, perfectly confident that he was to ‘“‘die 
for an old sheep,” was making the best of his 
time, even while expecting every moment to be 
called to go home for punishment. But when 
the news of his master’s determination to stay 
reached him, his fears faded, and he prepared to 
enjoy himself until fatigue stopped him. As for 
Hannah, she was joyous even though, woman- 
like, she could not shut her eyes to the doubtful 
future. 

It was near twelve o’clock on the crisp, bright, 
Christmas morning that followed when Mason 
Tyler called for his horse to ride home. He was 
mellow and jovial and the red in his face was 
less apoplectic. He called for his horse, but he 
did not call for Ben, for during the night and 
morning Fullerton had gained several promises 
from him; one that he would not whip the run- 
away, the other, that Ben might spend the week. 

118 


Ash-Cake Hannah and Her Ben 


One will promise anything to one’s host, espe- 
cially when that host’s cellar is the most famous 
in six counties. 

It was with joyous hearts that Ash-Cake— 
now Happy—Hannah and Ben watched the de- 
parture of Tyler. When he was gone, Ben 
whooped and cut the pigeon-wing, while Han- 
nah, now that the danger was past, uttered a re- 
proving: ‘‘You is de beatenes’! I mos’ wish he’d 
’a tuk you erlong now;” and turned to open her 
Christmas presents. 


119 


DIZZY-HEADED DICK. 


Those were troublous times on the plantation, 
both for master and for man. The master only 
should have been concerned; but nothing ever 
went on at the “big house” that “the quarters” 
did not feel and know. And they had good rea- 
son to know this. The master had been specially 
irritable that morning, and Dinah told Aunt 
Fannie that he had driven Jim, the valet, from 
the room, and had shaved himself—an unprece- 
dented happening, for Bradley Fairfax had never 
before been known to refuse the delicate atten- 
tions of his favorite serving-man. 

There was another reason, too, why the quar- 
ters should know all about the trouble, for was 
not Dinah herself the weathervane whose gyra- 
tions in the quarters had only to be watched to 
know which way the wind blew at the big house, 
and when Big Ben from the Norton plantation 
came over to visit her Emily, as he had been 
doing for a year past, had she not driven him 
from the place? 

“T ain’t a-raisin’ darters,” she said indignantly, 
“to th’ow away on de likes 0’ dem No’ton nig- 


120 


Dizzy-Headed Dick 


gahs; w’en Em’ly m’ay, I spec’ huh to look fu’ 
biggah game in tallah trees.” 

“But, Dinah,” said Aunt Fannie, ‘yo’ been 
lettin’ Ben gallant Em’ly right erlong fu’ mos’ 
nigh a yeah; huccome yo’ done change so quick ?” 

Dinah turned upon her interlocutor the look 
of disgust which is only possible with a match- 
making matron as she replied: ‘La, A’nt Fan- 
nie, chile, you don’ know? I let huh go ’long o’ 
him case I hadn’t ’skivered yit dat de niggah 
had any ’tentions. Soon ez I did, I made him 
faihly fly.” 

Aunt Fannie laughed significantly, because she 
knew her people so well, and said with apparent 
irrelevance: “I ain’t seed Mas’ Tawm No’ton 
up to de big house fu’ a day er so.” 

It was irrelevant, but confidential. 

“Heish, honey; Mas’ Bradley done driv’ him 
away too long ’go to talk bout. He ’lows how 
ef Mis’ Marg’et cain’t find no bettah match fu’ 
huhse’f dan Tawm No’ton she kin des’ be a ol’ 
maid, lak huh A’nt Marg’et.” 

“Whut’s de mattah wid Mas’ Tawm? He 
good quality an’ mighty well off?” 

“Whut’s de mattah? W’y, he wil’ ez a young 
deeh; whut wid hoss-racin’ an’ gwine down de 


I2I 


In Old Plantation Days 


ribber to Noo O’leans, he des’ taihin’ up awful 
Jack!” 

“But hol’ on; I don’ see de rights o’ dat. OP 
Phoebe say dat Mas’ hisse’f was one o’ de hoss- 
racin’est, travelin’-erroun’est young mans in de 
country w’en he was a-comin’ erlong.” 

“‘Sh-sh ; maybe he done been dat, but den Mas’ 
he settled down.” 

“Den w’y don’ he give Mas’ Tawm a chanst ? 
A hoss got to be a colt fus’, ain’t he ?” 

“Look hyeah, A’nt Fannie, whut’s de mat- 
tah’d you? I don’t keer ef a hoss uz got to be a 
colt fus’; nobody ain’t gwine to buy no colt w’en 
he want a ca’ige hoss.”’ 

“No, indeedy, an’ yo’ cain’t tell me! No ca’ige 
hoss ain’t gwine to ’mount to nuffin’ ’less’n he 
been a purty lively colt.” 

“Go ’long, A’nt Fannie!” 

“Clah out, Dinah!” 

Aunt Fannie was wiser than she seemed. She 
was the cook for the big house, and from the 
vantage ground of her kitchen, which sat just a 
little way off the back veranda, she saw many 
things. Besides, her son Dick was a house boy, 
and he told her others. 


I22 


Dizzy-Headed Dick 


She and Dick had special reasons for loving 
and cherishing the young Miss Margaret, for, 
when angry at some misdemeanor of the black 
boy’s, Bradley Fairfax had threatened to sell 
him down the river, it had been the young 
woman’s prayers rather than Aunt Fannie’s wail- 
ings that had turned him from his determination. 
So they worshiped her, and Dick would have 
died for her. 

On the day that the storm rose to its height 
Dick slipped down to his mother’s kitchen with 
the news. 

“Whut’s de mattah’d you, Dick?” asked his 
mother. 

“Sh, mammy, but dey’s goin’s on up dah.” 

“Wha kin’ o’ gwine on, huh?” 

“T hyeahd Mas’ Bradley talkin’ to young Mis’ 
dis mo’nin’, an’ I tell you fu’ a little wile it was 
mannahs.”’ 

““Whut’d he say to my little lammy ?” 

“Dey was talkin’ *bout Mas’ Tawm No’ton, 
an’ she tol’ him dat Mas’ Tawm wasn’t so wil’ 
ez he used to be, an’ he uz a-settlin’ down. Mas’ 
he up an’ said dat Tawm No’ton didn’t come o’ 
a settlin-down fambly, an’ dey wouldn’t be no 
weddin’ in his house ’tween huh an’ a No’ton. 


123 


In Old Plantation Days 


Den she ax him ef he an’ Mas’ Tawm’s pa wa’n’t 
great frien’s w’en dey was young, an’ he say, 
c’ose; but dey had come to de pa’tin’ o’ de ways 
long befo’ ol’ man Tawm No’ton died. 

‘Mis’ Marg’et, she ’plied up, ‘Well, fathah, 
I hope you won’t fo’ce yo’ darter to steal away 
lak a thief in de night to ma’y de man she 
loves.’ ” 

‘““*T ain’t ’fraid,’ ol’ Mas’ says; ‘no Fairfax 
lady have evah done dat.’ ‘Den watch th’oo de 
day,’ she answeh back, an’ den I didn’t hyeah no 
mo’. It ’pears lak to me Mas’ Bradley ain’t so 
sot ag’in Mas’ Tawm No’ton, case he come out 
purty soon an’ kicked Jim, an’ w’en he right mad 
he don’t ac’ dat a-way. Seem lak he des’ kin’ 0’ 
whimsy an’ stubbo’n; but it’s goin’ to mek 
somep’n happen.” 

‘How yo’ know whut it gwine to do?” 

“°Case I saw Mis’ Marg’et ride down to de 
big gate, an’ w’en she thought nobody was look- 
in’ tek a lettah out o’ de post, an’ w’en she rode 
back huh lips was a-set in de Fairfax way, so I’m 
gwine to keep my eye peeled th’oo de day.” 

‘Oomph, is dat all you know?” 

SXes'm. 7 


124 


Dizzy-Headed Dick 


“Well, you clah out, you black rascal; you 
been eavesdrappin’ ag’in, dat’s whut you been 
doin’. You ought to be ashamed o’ yo’se’f. 
Don’ you come hyeah a’tellin’ me no mo’ o’ yo’ 
eavesdrappin’ trash; clah out!”’ 

“Yes’m, I’m a-goin’, but you keep yo’ eahs 
open, mammy, an’ yo’ eyes, too; an’ mammy, 
*membah hit’s ouah Mis’ Marg’et!”’ 

“Clah out, I tell you!” and Dick went his way. 
“Ouah Mis’ Marg’et; sic himpidence!’’ mused 
the old woman as she began to beat the dough 
for the biscuits; ‘“ouah Mis’ Marg’et—my po’ 
little lamb !” 

If Tom Norton had only known it, he had 
two strong allies in any designs he might have. 

Aunt Fannie affected to ignore Dick’s injunc- 
tions. Nevertheless, in the ensuing days she 
followed his advice and kept her eyes open. 
They were so wide open and so busy with diverse 
things that on two mornings she sent in burned 
biscuits to the big house, and was like to lose her 
reputation. 

However, all waiting must sometime end, and 
Aunt Fannie’s watchfulness was rewarded when 
she saw one morning a carriage and pair dash up 

125 


In Old Plantation Days 


the front drive, circle the house, and halt at the 
back veranda. 

“T couldn’t mek out whut was de mattah,”’ she 
afterward told Dinah, ‘“‘w’en I seed dat ca’ige 
flyin’ roun’ de house widout stoppin’; den all of 
a suddint I seed my lammy come a’runnin’ out 
wid a mantilly ovah huh haid, an’ I look at de 
ca’ige ag’in, an’ lo an’ behol’; dah stood young 
Mas’ Tawm No’ton, hol’in’ out his ahms to huh. 
She runned right past de kitchen, an’ whut you 
think dat blessed chile do? She stop an’ fling 
huh ahms roun’ my ol’ naik an’ kiss me, an’ hit’s 
de livin trufe, I’d’a’ died fu’ huh right dah. She 
wa'n’t no mo’ den ha’f way to de ca’ige w’en ol’ 
Mas’ come des’ a-ragin’ an’ a-sto’min’ to de do’, 
an’ Lawd, chile, ’fo’ I knowed it I was a-hol- 
lerin’, ‘Run, baby, run!’ She did run, too, an’ 
Mas’ Tawm he run to meet huh and tuk huh by 
de han.’ 

“Den I seed my Dick runnin’, too, an’ I 
hyeahed Mas’ Bradley hollah: ‘Cut de traces, 
Dick; cut de traces!’ I stepped back an’ reached 
fu’ my meat cleavah. Ef dat boy’d ’a’ teched 
dem traces I’s mighty ’feahed I'd ’a’ th’owed it 
at him an’ cut ouah ’lationship in two, but I see 
Mis’ Marg’et tu’n an’ look back ovah huh shoul- 


126 


Dizzy-Headed Dick 


der at him des’ as she step in de ca’ige. She gin 
him a kin’ o’ ’pealin look, but hit a ’fidin’ look, 
too, an’ all of a suddint dat rascal’s han’s went 
up in de aih an’ he fell flat on de grass. Ol’ 
Mas’ kept a’screamin’ to him to cut de traces, 
but c’ose, ’fo’ he could git up de hosses was a- 
sailin’ down de road, an’ Mis’ Marg’et was 
a’wavin’ huh han’ kin’ o’ sad lak outen de ca’ige 
windah; but la’ Mas’ Tawm gin one look at 
Dick a-layin’ dah in de grass an’ faihly split his 
sides wid laffin.’ De las’ I seed 0’ dem ez dey 
made de tu’n he was still a’hol’in’ hisse’f. 

“Well, Mas’ Bradley he come a sto’min’ down 
an’ kick Dick. ‘Git up,’ he say, ‘git up, you black 
scoun’el, an’ Dick raise his haid kin’ o’ weak lak, 
an’ say ‘Huh?’ Well, I lak to died; I didn’t 
know de boy had so much dev’ment in him. 

“Ol Mas’ he grab him an’ yank him up, an’ 
he say: ‘W’yn’t you cut dem traces?’ An’ Dick 
he look up an’ ’ply, des’ ez innercent: ‘W’y, 
Mas’ Bradley, I was tuk wid sich a dizz’ness in 
my haid all o’ de sudden hit seemed lak I was 
tu’nin’ roun’ and roun’.’ 

“**T give you dizz’ness in yo’ haid,’ ol’ Mas’ 
hollah; ‘tek him up on de po’ch an’ tie him to 
one o’ dem pillahs!’ So Bob an’ Jim tuk him 


127 


In Old Plantation Days 


up an’ tied him to one o’ de pillahs, an’ ol’ Mas’ 
went inter de house.” 

Here Dinah broke in: “‘I was in dah w’en he 
comed. Mean’ ol’ Mis’ had des’ got back f’om 
town, an’ Mas’ Bradley he say, ‘Well, a fellah 
dat’ll drive right up in a man’s ya’d an’ tek his 
darter f’om under his nose mus’ have some’p’n 
in him,’ an’ ol’ Mis’ she laff an’ cry altogethah. 
I spec’ she uz in de secret. I ain’ so down on 
Big Ben ez I was.” 


But 


“La, Dinah, you is de beatenes’ 
” 


wait; lemme tell you 

‘Don’ I know de res’ ?” 

“You don’t know ’bout de coffee?” 

“No; whut ’bout de coffee ?” 

“Aftah w’ile Mas’ Bradley sent a whole string 
o’ little darkies down to my kitchen an’ mek me 
give each of ’em a cup o’ coffee; den he ma’ched 
"em all in line up to Dick an’ mek him drink all 
de coftee. 

‘““°Whut you want me drink all dis coffee fu’? 
Dick say, an’ Mas’ Bradley he look mighty 
se’ious an’ ply: ‘I’s tryin’ to cuoah dat dizzy 
haid o’ yo’n.’ Well, suh, I wish’t yo’d ’a’ 
hyeahed dem little rascallions. Dey des’ rolled 
on de grass an’ hollahed, ‘Dizzy-haided Dick! 


128 


Dizzy-Headed Dick 


Dizzy-haided Dick!’ an’ Mas’ he tu’ned an’ went 
in de house. I reckon dat name’ll stick to de boy 
*twell he die; but I don’t keer, he didn’t go back 
on his young Mis’, dizzy haid er no dizzy haid, 
an’ Mas’ Bradley he gwine fu’give de young 
folks anyhow. Ef he ain’t, huccome he didn’t 
taih Dick all to pieces?” 


129 


THE CONJURING CONTEST. 


The whole plantation was shocked when it 
became generally known that Bob, who had been 
going with Viney for more than a year, and for 
half that time had publicly escorted her to and 
from meeting, had suddenly changed, and be- 
stowed his affections upon another. It was the 
more surprising, for Viney was a particularly 
good-looking girl, while the new flame, Cassie, 
was an ill-favored woman lately brought over 
from another of the Mordaunt plantations. 

It was one balmy Sunday evening that they 
strolled up from the quarters’ yard together, arm 
in arm, and set wagging the tongues of all their 
fellow-servants. 

Bob’s mother, who was sitting out in front of 
her door, gave a sigh as her son passed with his 
ungainly sweetheart. She was still watching 
them with an unhappy look in her eyes when 
Mam’ Henry, the plantation oracle, approached 
and took a seat on the step beside her. 

“Howdy, Mam’ Henry,” said Maria. 

“Howdy, Maria; how you come on?” 


130 


The Conjuring Contest 


“Oh, right peart in my body, but I’m kin’ o’ 
*sturbed in my min’.”’ 

“Huh, I reckon you is ’sturbed in yo’ min’!” 
said the old woman keenly. ‘‘Maria, you sholy 
is one blin’ ’ooman.”’ 

“Blin? I don’t know whut you mean, Mam’ 
Henry; how’s I blin’ ?” 

“You’s blin’, I tell you. Now, whut you 
spose de mattah wid yo’ Bob?” 

“De mattah wid him? Dat des’ whut trouble 
my min’. Mam’ Henry, hit’s to think dat dat 
boy o’ mine ’u’d be so thickle-minded!”’ 

wih tee 

““Hyeah he was a-gwine ’long o’ Viney, whut 
sholy is a lakly gal, an’ a peart one, too; den all 
o’ a sudden he done change his min’, an’ tek up 
wid dat ol’ ha’d-time lookin’ gal. I don’ know 
whut he t’inkin’ ’bout.” 

“You don’ know whut he t’inkin’ "bout ? Co’se 
you don’ know whut he t’inkin’ ’bout, an’ I don’ 
know whar yo’ eyes is, dat you can’t see somep’n’ 
dat’s des’ ez plain ez de nose on yo’ face.” 

“Well, I low I mus’ be blin’, Mam’ Henry, 
*ca’se I don’ understan’ it.” 

“Whut you reckon a lakly boy lak Bob see on 
dat gallus niggah?” 


131 


In Old Plantation Days 


“T don’ know, Mam’ Henry, but dey do say 
she bake mighty fine biscuits, an’ you know Bob’s 
min’ moughty close to his stomach.” 

“Biscuits, biscuits,’ snorted the old woman; 
tain’t no biscuits got dat man crazy. Hit’s 
roots, I tell you; hit’s roots!” 

“Mam’ Henry, fo’ de Lawd, you don’ 
mean—” 

The old woman leaned solemnly over to her 
companion and whispered dramatically: ‘“He’s 
conju’ed; dat’s whut he is!” 


coy 


Maria sprang up from the doorway and stood 
gazing at Mam’ Henry like a startled animal; 
then she said in a hurried voice: ‘“Whut! dat 
~huzzy conju’ my chile? IJ—I—TI’ll kill huh; 
dat’s whut I will.” 

“Yes, you kill huh, co’se you will. I reckon 
dat’ll tek de spell offen Bob, won’t hit? Dat’ll 
kep him f’om hatin’ you, an’ des pinin’ erway an’ 
dyin’ fu’ huh, won’t hit, uh?” 

Maria sank down again in utter helplessness, 
crying: “Conju’ed, conju’ed; oh, whut shell I 
do?” 

“Fus’ ting,” said Mam’ Henry, “‘you des set 
up an’ ac’ sensible. Aftah dat I’ll talk to you.” 

132 


The Conjuring Contest 


“Go on, Mam’ Henry; I’s a-listenin’ to you. 
Conju’ed, conju’ed, my boy! Oh, de—” 

““Heish up, an’ listen to me. Befo’ Bob put 
on his shoes termorrer mornin’ you slip a piece 0’ 
silvah in de right one, flat in de middle, whah he 
won’ feel it. You want to fin’ out how he’s con- 
ju’ed, an’ des’ how bad it is. Ef she ain’t done 
nuffin’ but planted somep’n’ roun’ de do’ fu’ him, 
why I reckon des’ sowin’ salt’ll brek de spell; but 
ef she’s cotch him in his eatin’s you’ll have to see 
a reg’lar conju’ doctah fo’ you kin wo’k dat out. 
I ain’t long-haided myse’l; but I got a frien’ dat 
iS. 

“But, Mam’ Henry, how I gwine tell how bad 
de conju’ is?” 

“Huh, gal, you don’ know nuffin’! Ef de 
silvah tu’ns right black, w’y, he’s cotched bad, 
an’ ef it only tu’ns kin’ o’ green he’s only mid- 
dlin’ tricked.” 

“How long I got to wait ’fo’ I knows?” 

“Tet him wah de silvah th’ee er fo’ days, an’ 


den let me see it.” 
Maria did as she was told, placing a dime in 


the bottom of her son’s shoe, and at the expira- 

tion of the alloted time, with eyes fear and 

wonder wide, she took the coin to her instructor. 
133 


In Old Plantation Days 


Whether from working in the field all day the 
soil had ground into Bob’s shoe and discolored 
the coin, or whether it had attracted some subtle 
poison from the wearer’s body, is not here to be 
decided. From some cause the silver piece was 
as dark as copper. 

Mam’ Henry shook her head over it. ‘He 
sho’ is cotched bad,’ she said. “I reckon she 
done cotched him in his eatin’s; dat de wuss kin’. 
You tek dat silvah piece an’ th’ow it in de runnin’ 
watah.” 

Maria hesitated; this was part of a store she 
was saving for a particular purpose. 

“W’y does I has to do dat, Mam’ Henry?” 
she asked. “Ain’ dey no othah way?” 

“Go ’long, gal; whut’s de mattah wid you? 
You do ez [ tell you. Don’ you know dat any- 
ting you buy wid dat money’d be bad luck to 
you? Dat ah dime’s chuck full 0’ goophah, clah 
to de rim.” 

So, trembling with fear, Maria hastened to 
the branch and threw the condemned coin into it, 
and she positively asserted to Mam’ Henry on 
her return that the water had turned right black 
and thick where the coin sunk. 


134 


The Conjuring Contest 


‘Now, de nex’ t’ing fu’ you to do is to go 
down an’ see my frien’, de conju’ doctah. He 
live down at de fo’ks o’ de road, des’ back 0’ de 
ol’ terbaccer house. Hit’s a skeery place, but you 
go dah ter-night, an’ tell him I sont you, an’ he 
lif? de spell. But don’ you go down dah offerin’ 
to pay him nuffin’, ’ca’se dat ’stroy his cha’ms. 
Aftah de wo’k done, den you gin him whut you 
want, an’ ef it ain’t enough he put de spell back 
on ergin. But mustn’ nevah ax a conju’ doctah 
whut he chawge, er pay him ’fo’ de cha’m wo’k, 
no mo’n you mus’ say thanky fu’ flowah seed.” 

About nine that night, Maria, frightened and 
trembling, presented herself at the ‘‘conju’ doc- 
tah’s” door. The hut itself was a grewsome 
looking place, dark and dilapidated. The yard 
surrounding it was overrun with a dense growth 
of rank weeds which gave forth a sickening 
smell as Maria’s feet pressed them. ‘The front 
window was shuttered, and the sagging roof 
sloped down to it, like the hat of a drunken man 
over a bruised eye. 

The mew of a cat, the shuffling of feet and a 
rattle of glass followed the black woman’s knock, 
and Maria pictured the terrible being within 
hastening to put away some of his terrible decoc- 

135 


In Old Plantation Days 


tions before admitting her. She was so afraid 
that she had decided to turn and flee, leaving 
Bob to his fate, when the door opened and the 
doctor stood before her. 

He was a little, wizened old man, his wrinkled 
face the color of parchment. ‘The sides of his 
head were covered with a bush of gray hair, 
while the top was bald and blotched with brown 
and yellow spots. A black cat was at his side, 
looking with evil eyes at the visitor. 

“Is you de conju’ doctah?” asked Maria. 

He stepped back that she might enter, and 
closed the door behind her. ‘‘I’s Doctah Bass,” 
he replied. 

‘‘T come to see you——I come to see you "bout 
my son. Mam’ Henry, she sont me.” 

“Well, le’ m’ hyeah all erbout it.” His man- 
ner was reassuring, if his looks were not, and 
somewhat encouraged, Maria began to pour 
forth the story of her woes into the conjure doc- 
tor’s attentive ear. When she was done he sat 
for a while in silence, then he said: 

‘T reckon she’s got some o’ his ha’r—-dat meks 
a moughty strong spell in a ’ooman’s han’s. You 
go back an’ bring me some o’ de’ ’ooman’s ha’r, 
an’ Dixit, imag. 

136 


The Conjuring Contest 


“But how’s I gwine git any o’ huh ha’r?” 

‘‘Dat ain’ fu’ me to say; I des’ tell you whut 
to do.” 

Maria backed out of the bottle-filled, root- 
hung room, and flew home through the night, 
with a thousand terrors pressing hard upon her 
heels. 

All next day she wondered how she could get 
some of her enemy’s hair. Not until evening did 
the solution of the problem come to her, and she 
smiled at its simplicity. When Cassie, her son’s 
unwelcome sweetheart, came along, she stepped 
out from her cabin door and addressed her in 
terms that could mean but one thing—fight. 
Cassie attacked Maria tooth and nail, but Maria 
was a wiry little woman, and when Bob sepa- 
rated the two a little later his mother was bruised 
but triumphant, for in her hand she held a gen- 
erous bunch of Cassie’s hair. 

“You foun’ out a way to git de ha’r,” said the 
conjure doctor to her that night, ‘‘an’ you ain’t 
spaihed no time a-gittin’ it.” 

He was busy compounding a mixture which 
looked to Maria very much like salt and ashes. 
To this he added a brown thing which looked 
like the dried liver of some bird. Then he put 


137 


In Old Plantation Days 


in a portion of Cassie’s hair. The whole of this 
he wrapped up in a snake’s skin and put in a bag. 
“Dat’ll fetch him,” he said, handing the bag 


to Maria. “You tek dis an’ put it undah his 
baid whah he won’ fin’ it, an’ sprinkle de res’ o’ 


dis ha’r on de blanket he lay on, an’ let hit stay 
dah seven days. Aftah dat he come roun’ all 
right. Den you kin come to see me,” he added 
significantly. 

Clasping her treasure, Maria hastened home 
and placed the conjure bag under her son’s bed, 
and sprinkled the short, stiff hair as she had been 
directed. He came in late that night, hurried 
out of his clothes and leaped into bed. Usually 
he went at once to sleep, but not so now. He 
rolled and tossed, and it was far past midnight 
before his regular breathing signified to the list- 
ening mother that he was asleep. ‘Then with a 
murmured, “De conju’ is a-wokin’ him,” she 
turned over and addressed herself to rest. 


The next morning Bob was tired and care- 
worn, and when asked what was the matter, re- 
sponded that his dreams had been troubled. He 
was so tired when the day’s work was over that 


he decided not to go and see Cassie that night. 
138 


« VINVW OL 
Ovd AHL ONIGNVH ‘GIVS 3H (‘WIH HOLA T1.1va 


‘ + ter Je. 


The Conjuring Contest 


He was just about going to bed when a tap came 
at the cabin door, and Viney came in. 

“Evenin’, A’nt Maria,” she said; ‘‘evenin’, 
Bob.” 

“Evenin’,” they both said. 

“T des’ run in, A’nt Maria, to bring you some 
o’ my biscuits. Mam’ Henry done gi’ me a new 
*ceipt fu’ mekin’ dem.” She uncovered the crisp, 
brown rolls, and the odor of them reached Bob’s 
nose. His eyes bulged, and he paused with his 
hand on his boot. 

“La,” said Maria, ‘dese sho’ is nice, Viney. 
He’p yo’se’f, Bob.” 

Bob suddenly changed his mind about going 
to bed, and he and Viney sat and chatted while 
the biscuits disappeared. Maria discreetly re- 
tired, and she said to herself as she sat outside on 
the step: ‘Dey ain’t no way fu’ dat boy to ’sist 
dat goophah an’ dem biscuits, too.” 

Bob’s dreams were troubled again that night, 
and the next, and as the evenings came he still 
found himself too tired to go a-courting. All 
this was not lost on the watchful mother, and she 
duly reported matters to Mam’ Henry, who 
transferred her information to Cassie in the fol- 
lowing manner: 


139 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Hit sholy don’ seem right, Sis’ Cassie, w’en 
Bob gwine ’long o’ you, fu’ him to be settin’ up 
evah night ’long o’ dat gal Viney.” 

And Cassie, who was a high-spirited girl, re- 
plied: 

“Uh, let de niggah go ‘long; I don’ keer 
nuffin’ ’bout him.” 

Next time she met Bob she passed without 
speaking to him, and, strange to say, he laughed, 
and didn’t seem to care, for Mam’ Henry’s bis- 
cuit receipt had made Viney dearer to him than 
she had ever been. Up until the eighth night 
his dreams continued to be troubled, but on that 
night he slept easily, and dreamed of Viney, for 
Maria had removed the conjure bag and had 
thrown it into running water. What is more, she 
had shaken the hair out of the blanket. 

The first evening that Bob felt sufficiently 
rested to go out skylarking it was with Viney he 
walked, and the quarters nodded and wondered. 
They walked up to the master’s house, where the 
momentous question was asked and favorably 
answered. ‘Then they came back radiant, and 
Viney set out some biscuits and preserves in her 
cabin to clinch it, and invited Maria and Mam’ 
Henry to share them with Bob and her. 


140 


The Conjuring Contest 


That night sundry things from the big house, 
as well as lesser things from Maria’s cabin found 
their way to the “‘conju’ doctah’s.” ‘The things 
from the big house were honestly procured, but 
it took the telling of the whole story by Maria to 
get them. 

When she had gone, her master, Dudley 
Stone, laughed to himself, and said with true 
Saxon incredulity: ‘“That old rascal, Bass, is a 
sharp one. I think lying on Cassie’s hair would 
trouble anybody’s dreams, conjure or no conjure, 
and if Viney learned to make biscuits like Mam- 
my Henry she needed no stronger charm.” 


141 


DANDY JIM’S CONJURE SCARE. 


Dandy Jim was very much disturbed when he 
came in that morning to shave his master. He 
was Dandy Jim, because being just his master’s 
size, he came in for the spruce garments which 
Henry Desmond cast off. The dark-skinned 
valet took great pride in his personal appearance, 
and was little less elegant than the white man 
himself. He was such a dapper black boy, and 
always so light and agile on his feet that his 
master looked up in genuine surprise when he 
came in this morning looking care-worn and de- 
jected, and walking with a decided limp. 

To the question, ‘“Why, what on earth is the 
matter with you, Jim?” he answered only with 
a doleful shake of his head. 

“Why, you look like you’d been getting re- 
ligion.” 

‘No, I ain’t quite as bad as dat, Mas’ Henry. 
Religion ’fects de soul, but hits my body dats 
*fected.” 

““You’ve been getting your feet wet, I reckon, 
and it’s cold.” 

“I wish ’twas; I wish ’twas,” said Jim sadly. 

142 


Dandy Jim’s Conjure Scare 


‘You wish it was? Well, what is the matter 
with you?” 

‘Mas’ Henry, kin you let me have a silver 
dime? I’s been hurted.” 

Jamel? 

“I tell you I’s been tricked.” 

‘And you believe in that sort of thing after 
all I’ve tried to teach you?” 

‘Mas’ Henry, I tell you, I’s been tricked. 
Dey ain’t no ’sputin’ de signs, teachin’ er no 
teachin’ !” 

“Well, I wish you'd tell me the signs so that 
I'd know them. It’s just possible that I may 
have been tricked some time and didn’t know it.” 

‘Don’ joke, Mas’ Henry, don’ joke. Dis is 
a se’ious mattah, an’ ’f you’d ’a’ evah been tricked 
an’ hit doneright, you’d’a’ knowed, case dey ’ain’t 
no ’sputin’ de symptoms. Dey’s mighty well 
known. W’en a body’s tricked, dey’s tricked, 
an’ dat’s de gospel truf.” 

“Do you claim to know them?” 

“Ton’ I tell you I’s a sufferin’ fom dem 
now ?”” 

“Well, what are they?” 

“Well, fu’ one t’ing, I’s got a mighty mis’ry 
in my back, an’ I got de limb trimbles, an’ I’s 

143 


In Old Plantation Days 


des’ creepy all ovah in spots, dat’s a sho’ sign, 
whenevah you feels spotted. I tells you, Mas’ 
Henry, somebody’s done laid fu’ me an’ cotch 
me. I wish you’d please, suh, gimme a piece 0’ 
silvah to lay on de place.” 

“What will that do?” 

“Wy, I wants to be right sho’, fo’ I goes to 


a conju’ doctah, an’ ef [ is tricked, de silvah, 
hit’ll show it, ’dout a doubt. Hit’ll tu’n right 


black.” 

‘‘Jim,” said the white man, as he handed over 
the silver coin, ‘I’ve never known you to talk 
this way before, and I believe you’ve got some 
oher reason for believing you’re conjured be- 
sides the ones you’ve given me. You rascal, 
you've been up to something.” 

The valet grinned sheepishly, hung his head 
and shuffled his feet in a way that instantly con- 
fessed judgment. 

“Come, own up now,” pressed his master, 
“what devilment have you been up to?” 

“I don’ see how it’s any dev’ment fu’ a body 
to go to see de gal he like.” 

‘Uh-huh, you’ve been after somebody else’s 
girl, have you? And he’s fixed you, eh?” 

144 


Dandy Jim’s Conjure Scare 


“I didn’t know ’Lize was goin’ ’long o’ any- 
body else ’twell I went in thaih de othah night 
to see huh, an’ even den, she nevah let on nuffin’. 
We talked erlong, an’ laughed, an’ was havin’ a 
mighty fine time. You see ’Lize, she got a 
powahful drawin’ way erbout huh. I kep’ on 
settin’ up nighah an’ nighah to huh, an’ she kep’ 
laughin’, but she nevah hitched huh cheer away, 
so co’se I thought hit was all right, an’ dey wa’nt 
nobody else a-keepin’ comp’ny wid huh. W’en, 
lo, an’ behol’, des’ as I was erbout to put my ahm 
erroun’ huh wais’, who should walk in de do’ but 
one dem gret big, red-eyed fiel’-han’s. Co’se I 
drawed erway, fu’ dat man sho’ did look dang’- 
ous. Well, co’se, a gent’man got to show his 
mannahs, so I ups an’ says, ‘“Good-evenin’, suh,’ 
an’ meks my ’bejunce. Oomph, dat man nevah 
answered no mo’n I’d been a knot on a log, an’ 
him anothah. Den ’Lize she up an say, ‘Good- 
evenin’, Sam, an’ bless yo’ soul, ef he didn’t treat 
huh de same way. He des’ went ovah in de 
cornder an’ sot down an’ thaih he sot, a-lookin’ 
at us wid dem big red eyes o’ his’n a-fai’ly 
blazin’! Well, I seed dat ’Lize was a-gittin’ 
oneasy, an’ co’se, hit ain’t nevah perlite to be a 

145 


In Old Plantation Days 


inconwenience to a lady, so I gits up an’ takes 
my hat, an’ takes my departer.” 

“The fact, in other words, is, you ran from 
the man.” 

“No, suh, a pusson couldn’t ’zactly say I run. 
I did come erway kind o’ fas’, but you see, I 
was thinkin’ ’bout ’Lize’s feelin’s an’ hit seemed 
lak ef I’d git out o’ de way, it'd relieve de 
strain.” 

“Yes, your action does great credit to your 
goodness of heart and your respect for your per- 
sonal safety, Jim.” 

Jim flashed a quick glance up into his master’s 
face. He did not like to be laughed at, but his 
eyes met nothing but the most serious of expres- 
sions, so he went on: “Dat uz two nights ago, 
an‘ evah sence den, I been feelin’ mighty funny. 
I des’ mo’n ’low dat Sam done laid fu’me, an’ 
cotch me in de back an’ laig. You know, Mas’ 
Henry, dem ah red-eyed people, dey mighty dan- 
g’ous, an’ it don’ do nobody no good to go ’long 
a-foolin’ wid ’em. Ef I’d ’a’ knowed dat Sam 
was a-goin’ "long o’ ’Lize, I sholy would ’a’ fed 
"em bofe wid a long spoon. I do’ want nobody 
plantin’ t’ings fu’ me.” 

146 


Dandy Jim’s Conjure Scare 


“Jim, you’re hopeless. Here I’ve tried my 
best to get that conjuring notion out of your 
head. You've been brought up right here in the 
house with me for three or four years, and now 
the first thing that happens, you fall right back 
to those old beliefs that would be unworthy of 
your African grandfather.” 

‘Mas’ Henry, I ain’ goin’ to ’spute none o’ 
yo’ teachin’s, an’ I ain’ goin’ to argy wid you, 
case you my mastah, an’ it wouldn’ be perlite, 
but I des’ got one t’ing to say, dat piece o’ silvah 
you gi’ me, ’ll tell de tale.” 

The valet now having finished his work and 
his complaints, went his way, leaving his master 
a bit disgusted, and a good deal amused. ‘These 
great overgrown children,” he mused, “still 
frightened by fairy tales.” 

It was late in the afternoon before the master 
saw his servant again. ‘Then he opened his eyes 
in astonishment at him. 

Henry Desmond was sitting on the porch, 
when the black man hove in sight. He would 
have slipped round to the back of the house and 
entered that way had not his master called to 
him. Dandy Jim, a dandy no longer, approached 
and stood before his speechless owner. He was 

147 


In Old Plantation Days 


a figure for gods and men to behold. He was 
covered with dirt from head to foot. His clothes 
looked as though he might have changed raiment 
with an impoverished scarecrow. One sleeve was 
gone out of his coat, and the leg of his trousers 
was ripped from the knee down. A half a dozen 
scratches and bruises disfigured his face, and 
when he walked, it was with a limp more de- 
cidedly genuine than the one of the morning. 
But the feature that utterly surprised Henry 
Desmond, that took away his speech for a mo- 
ment or two, was the beautiful smile that sat on 
Jim’s countenance. 

The master finally found his voice, ‘‘Jim, what 
on earth is the matter? You look like a storm 
had struck you.” 

“Oh, Mas’ Henry, I ain’ conjuahed, J ain’ 
conjuahed!” 

“You ain’t conjured? Well, you look a good 
deal more like you’d been conjured than you did 
this morning. I should take it for granted that 
a whole convention of witches and hoodoos had 
sat on your case.” 

‘No suh, no suh, I ain’ conjuahed a-tall.”’ 

‘Well, what’s the matter with you, then?” 

148 


Dandy Jim’s Conjure Scare 


““W’y, suh, I’s seed dat red-eyed fiel-han’ Sam, 
an’ he pu’t nigh walloped de life out 0’ me, yes, 
suh, he did.” 

“Well, you take it blessed cheerful.” 

‘‘Dat’s becase I knows I ain’ conjuahed.”’ 

“Didn’t the silver turn black? You know it 
might not have had time yet!” 

‘Mas’ Henry, I ain’ bothahed nuffin’ ’bout de 
silvah, I ain’ ’pendin’ on dat. De reason I knows 
I ain’ conjuahed, Sam, he done whupped me. I 
was a goin’ down to de fiel’ ‘long ’bout dinnah 
time, an’ who should I meet but Sam. ‘Hol’ on, 
Jim,’ he say, a settin’ down de bucket he was 
ca’in’ to de fiel’. ‘Hol’ on,’ he say, an’ I stop 
*twell he come up. ‘Jim,’ he say, ‘you was down 
in the quahtahs a-settin’ up to Miss ’Lize night 
befo’ last’, wasn’t you?’ ‘Well, I was present,’ 
say I, ‘on dat occasion, w’en I had de pleasure 0’ 
meetin’ you.” ‘Nemmine dat, nemmine dat,’ he 
say,’ ‘I do’ want none o’ yo’ fine wo’ds what you 
lu’n up to de big house, an’ uses crookid down 
in de quahtahs;’ but bless yo’ soul, Mas’ Henry, 
dat wa’nt true—I do’ want none o’ yo’ fine 
wo’ds;’ den he tuk off his hat, an’ rolled up his 
sleeves—he sholy has got awful ahms. ‘I’s goin’ 
to whup you,’ says he, an’, well, suh, he did. He 

149 


In Old Plantation Days 


whupped me mos’ scan’lous. He des’ walloped 
me all ovah de groun’. Oomph, I nevah shell 
fu’git it! W’y, dat man lak to wo’ me out. 
Seemed lak, w’en he fust sta’ted, he was des’ 
goin’ to give me a little dressin’ down, but he 
seemed to waken to de wo’k ez he pu’sued his 
co’se. W’en he got thoo, he say, ‘Now ef evah 
I ketches you foolin’ ’roun’ Miss ’Lize agin, [Il 
brek you all ter pieces.’ Den I come away re- 
joicin’ ’case I knowed I wa’nt tricked.” 

“Well, you’re the first man I ever saw rejoice 
over such a thrashing as you’ve had. What do 
you mean? How do you know you're not con- 
jured?” 

““W’y, Mas’ Henry, what’s de use o’ con- 
juahin’ a man w’en you can whup him lak dat? 
Hain’t dat enough satisfaction? Dey ain’t no 
need to go ’roun’ wo’kin wid roots w’en you got 
sich fistes ez Sam got.” 

“But you had so much confidence in the silver 
this morning. What does the silver say?” 

“La, Mas’ Henry, aftah Sam whupped me 
dat ’way I was so satisfied in my min’ dat I des’ 
tuk off de silvah an bought lin’ment wid it. You 


150 


Dandy Jim’s Conjure Scare 


kin cuoah bruises wid lin’ment, an’ you allus 
knows des how to reach de case, but conjuah, 
dat’s diff'unt.”” And Jim limped away to apply 
his lotion to his sore, but unconjured body. 


151 


THE MEMORY OF MARTHA. 


You may talk about banjo-playing if you will, 
but unless you heard old Ben in his palmy days 
you have no idea what genius can do with five 
strings stretched over the sheepskin. 

You have been told, perhaps, that the banjo is 
not an expressive instrument. Well, in the hands 
of the ordinary player it is not. But you should 
have heard old Ben, as bending low over the 
neck, with closed eyes, he made the shell respond 
like a living soul to his every mood. It sang, 
it laughed, it sighed; and, just as the tears began 
welling up into the listener’s eyes, it would break 
out into a merry reel that would set one’s feet 
a-twinkling before one knew it. 

Ben and his music were the delight of the 
whole plantation, white and black, master and 
man, and in the evening when he sat before his 
cabin door, picking out tune after tune, hymn, 
ballad or breakdown, he was always sure of an 
audience. Sometimes it was a group of white 
children from the big house, with a row of 
pickaninnies pressing close to them. Sometimes 
it was old Mas’ and Mis’ themselves who strolled 


152 


The Memory of Martha 


up to the old man, drawn by his strains. Often 
there was company, and then Ben would be asked 
to leave his door and play on the veranda of 
the big house. Later on he would come back to 
Martha laden with his rewards, and swelled with 
the praise of his powers. 

And Martha would say to him, “You, Ben, 
don’ you git conceity now; you des’ keep yo’ haid 
level. I des’ mo’n ’low you been up dah playin’ 
some o’ dem ongodly chunes, lak Hoe Co’n an’ 
Diggelaters:. 

Ben would laugh and say, ,“‘Well, den, I tek 
de wickedness offen de banjo. Swing in, ol’ 
*ooman!”’ And he would drop into the accom- 
paniment of one of the hymns that were the 
joy of Martha’s religious soul, and she would 
sing with him until, with a flourish and a thump, 
he brought the music to an end. 

Next to his banjo, Ben loved Martha, and 
next to Ben, Martha loved the banjo. Ina time 
and a region where frequent changes of partners 
were common, these two servants were noted 
for their single-hearted devotion to each other. 
He had never had any other wife, and she had 
called no other man husband. Their children 
had grown up and gone to other plantations, or 

153 


In Old Plantation Days 


to cabins of their own. So, alone, drawn closer 
by the habit of comradeship, they had grown old 
together—Ben, Martha and the banjo. 

One day Martha was taken sick, and Ben 
came home to find her moaning with pain, but 
dragging about trying to get his supper. With 
loud pretended upbraidings he bundled her into 
bed, got his own supper, and then ran to his mas- 
ter with the news. 

“Marfy she down sick, Mas’ Tawm,” he said, 
‘an’ I’s mighty oneasy in my min’ "bout huh. 
Seem lak she don’ look right to me outen huh 
eyes. | 

“Tl send the doctor right down, Ben,” said 
his master. “I don’t reckon it’s anything very 
serious. I wish you would come up to the house 
to-night with your banjo. Mr. Lewis is going 
to be here with his daughter, and I want them 
to hear you play.” 

It was thoughtlessness on the master’s part; 
that was all. He did not believe that Martha 
could be very ill; but he would have reconsidered 
his demand if he could have seen on Ben’s face 
the look of pain which the darkness hid. 

“You'll send de doctah right away, Mas’ ?”” 

154 


The Memory of Martha 


“Oh, yes; Pll send him down. Don’t forget 
to come up.” 

“T won't fu’git,’”’ said Ben as he turned away. 
But he did not pick up his banjo to go to the 
big house until the plantation doctor had come 
and given Martha something to ease her. Then 
he said: “I’s got to go up to de big house, 
Marfy; I be back putty soon.” 

‘Don’ you hu’y thoo on my ’count. You go 
"long, an’ gin Mas’ Tawm good measure, you 
hyeah ?” 

“Quit yo’ bossin,” said Ben, a little more 
cheerfully; ‘I got you whah you cain’t move, an’ 
ef you give me any o’ yo’ back talk I ‘low I frail 
you monst’ous.”’ 

Martha chuckled a “go long,” and Ben went 
lingeringly out of the door, the banjo in its 
ragged cover under his arm. 

The plantation’s boasted musician played 
badly that night. Colonel Tom Curtis wondered 
what was the matter with him, and Mr. Lewis 
told his daughter as he drove away that it seemed 
as if the Colonel’s famous banjoist had been 
overrated. But who could play reels and jigs 
with the proper swing when before his eyes was 


155 


In Old Plantation Days 


the picture of a smoky cabin room, and on the 
bed in it a sick wife, the wife of forty years? 

The black man hurried back to his cabin where 
Martha was dozing. She awoke at his step. 

“Didn’t I tell you not to hu’y back hyeah?” 
she asked. 

“T ain’t nevah hu’ied. I reckon I gin ’em all 
de music dey wanted,’’ Ben answered a little 
sheepishly. He knew that he had not exactly 
covered himself with glory. ‘“How’s you feel- 
in ? “he-added, 

“Bout de same. I got kin’ of a mis’ry in my 
Side. 

“T reckon you couldn’t jine in de hymn to tek 
de wickedness outen dis ol’ banjo?” He looked 
anxiously at her. 

“T don’ know ’bout j’inin’ in, but you go ’long 
an’ play anyhow. Ef I feel lak journeyin’ wid 
you I fin’ you somewhar on de road.” 

The banjo began to sing, and when the hymn 
was half through Martha’s voice, not so strong 
and full as usual, but trembling with a new 
pathos, joined in and went on to the end. Then 
Ben put up the banjo and went to his rest. 

The next day Martha was no better, and the 
same the next. Her mistress came down to see 

156 


The Memory of Martha 


her, and delegated one of the other servants to 
be with her through the day and to get Ben’s 
meals. The old man himself was her close 
attendant in the evenings, and he waited on her 
with the tenderness of a woman. He varied 
his duties as nurse by playing to her, sometimes 
some lively, cheerful bit, but more often the 
hymns she loved but was now too weak to fol- 
low. 

It gave him an aching pleasure at his heart to 
see how she hung on his music. It seemed to 
have become her very life. He would play for 
no one else now, and the little space before his 
door held his audience of white and black chil- 
dren no more. ‘They still came, but the cabin 
door was inhospitably shut, and they went away 
whispering among themselves, “‘Aunt Martha’s, 
Sitka. 

Little Liz, who was a very wise pickaninny, 
once added, “Yes, Aunt Marfy’s sick, an’ my 
mammy says she ain’ never gwine to git up no 
mo’.”’ Another child had echoed ‘‘Never!”’ in 
the hushed, awe-struck tones which children use 
in the presence of the great mystery. 

Liz’s mother was right. Ben’s Martha was 
never to get up again. One night during a pause 

157 


In Old Plantation Days 


in his playing she whispered, “Play ‘Ha’k! F’om 
de Tomb.’”” He turned into the hymn, and her 
voice, quavering and weak, joined in. Ben 
started, for she had not tried to sing for so 
long. He wondered if it wasn’t a token. In the 
midst of the hymn she stopped, but he played 
on to the end of the verse. Then he got up and 
looked at her. 

Her eyes were closed, and there was a smile 
on her face—a smile that Ben knew was not of 
earth. He called her, but she did not answer. 
He put his hand upon her head, but she lay very 
still, and then he knelt and buried his head in 
the bedclothes, giving himself up to all the tragic 
violence of an old man’s grief. 

“Marfy! Marfy! Marfy!” he called. ‘“‘What 
you want to leave me fu’? Marfy, wait; I ain’t 
gwine be long.” 

His cries aroused the quarters, and the neigh- 
bors came flocking in. Ben was hustled out of 
the way, the news carried to the big house, and 
preparations made for the burying. 

Ben took his banjo. He looked at it fondly, 
patted it, and, placing it in its covering, put it 
on the highest shelf in the cabin. 

158 


ccd AA AN AAVAT 
OL INVM NOA LVHM, “GHTIVO aM ,j ATUVIK 


Ei 


The Memory of Martha 


‘“Brothah Ben allus was a mos’ p’opah an’ 
*sponsible so’t o’ man,” said Liz’s mother as she 
saw him do it. ‘“‘Now, dat’s what I call showin’ 
*spec’ to Sis Marfy, puttin’ his banjo up in de 
vey place whah it’ll get all dus’. Brothah Ben 
sho is diff’ent f’om any husban’ I evah had.” 
She had just provided Liz with a third step- 
father, 

On many evenings after Martha had been 
laid away, the children, seeing Ben come and sit 
outside his cabin door, would gather around, 
waiting, and hoping that the banjo would be 
brought out, but they were always doomed to 
disappointment. On the high shelf the old banjo 
still reposed, gathering dust. 

Finally one of the youngsters, bolder than the 
rest, spoke: ‘‘Ain’t you gwine play no mo’, 
Uncle Ben?” and received a sad shake of the 
head in reply, and a laconic “Nope.” 

This remark Liz dutifully reported to her 
mother. ‘‘No, o’ co’se not,” said that wise 
woman with emphasis; ‘“‘o’ co’se Brothah Ben 
ain’ gwine play no mo’; not right now, leas’ways; 
an’ don’ you go dah pesterin’ him, nuther, Liz. 
You be perlite an’ ’spectable to him, an’ make yo’ 
*bejunce when you pass.” 

159 


In Old Plantation Days 


The child’s wise mother had just dispensed 
with her latest stepfather. 

The children were not the only ones who 
attempted to draw old Ben back to his music. 
Even his master had a word of protest. “I tell 
you, Ben, we miss your banjo,” he said. “I wish 
you would come up and play for us sometime.” 

“I'd lak to, Mastah, I’d lak to; but evah time 
I think erbout playin’ I kin des see huh up dah 
an’ hyeah de kin’ o’ music she’s a-listenin’ to, an’ 
I ain’t got no haht fu’ dat ol’ banjo no mo’.” 

The old man looked up at his master so piti- 
fully that he desisted. 

“Oh, never mind,” he said, “if you feel that 
way about it.” 

As soon as it became known that the master 
wanted to hear the old banjo again, every negro 
on the plantation was urging the old man to play 
in order to say that his persuasion had given the 
master pleasure. None, though, went to the old 
man’s cabin with such confidence of success as did 
Mary, the mother of Liz. 

‘‘O’ co’se, he wa’n’t gwine play den,” she said 
as she adjusted a ribbon; “‘he was a mo’nin’; but 
now—hit’s diffe’nt,”’ and she smiled back at her- 
self in the piece of broken mirror. 

160 


The Memory of Martha 


She sighed very tactfully as she settled herself 
on old Ben’s doorstep. 

“T nevah come long hyeah,”’ she said ‘“‘widout 
thinkin’ ’bout Sis Marfy. Me an’ huh was gret 
frien’s, an’ a moughty good frien’ she was.” 

Ben shook his head affirmatively. Mary 
smoothed her ribbons and continued: 

“I ust to often come an’ set in my do’ w’en 
you'd be a-playin’ to huh. I was des’ sayin’ to 
myse’f de othah day how I would lak to hyeah 
dat ol’ banjo ag’in.”” She paused. “*’Pears lak 
Sis Marfy ’d be right nigh.” 

Ben said nothing. She leaned over until her 
warm brown cheek touched his knee. ‘‘Won’t 
you play fu’ me, Brothah Ben?” she asked plead- 
ingly. ‘Des’ to bring back de membry o’ Sis 
Marfy?” 

The old man turned two angry eyes upon her. 
“T don’ need to play,” he said, ‘an’ [ ain’ gwine- 
ter. Sis Marfy’s membry’s hyeah,” and tapping 
his breast he walked into his cabin, leaving Mary 
to take her leave as best she could. 

It was several months after this that a number 
of young people came from the North to visit 
the young master, Robert Curtis. It was on the 
second evening of their stay that young Eldridge 

161 


In Old Plantation Days 


said, “Look here, Colonel Curtis, my father 
visited your plantation years ago, and he told me 
of a wonderful banjoist you had, and said if I 
ever came here to be sure to hear him if he was 
alivema sews 

“You mean old Ben? Yes, he’s still living, 
but the death of his wife rather sent him daft, 
and he hasn’t played for several years.” 

“Pshaw, I’m sorry. We laughed at father’s 
enthusiasm over him, because we thought he 
overrated his powers.” 

“T reckon not. He was truly wonderful.” 

“Don’t you think you can stir him up?” 

“Oh, do, Col. Curtis,’ chorused a number of 
voices. 

“Well, I don’t know,” said the Colonel, “‘but 
come with me and I[’ll try.” 

The young people took their way to the cabin, 
where old Ben occupied his accustomed place 
before the door. 

“Uncle Ben,”’ said the master, “‘here are some 
friends of mine from the North who are anxious 
to hear you play, and I knew you'd break your 
rule for me.” 

“Chile, honey ” began the old man. 

But Robert, his young master, interrupted 
him. “I’m not going to let you say no,” and 

162 


The Memory of Martha 


he hurried past Uncle Ben into the cabin. He 
came out, brushing the banjo and _ saying, 
“Whew, the dust!” 

The old man sat dazed as the instrument was 
thrust into his hand. He looked pitifully into the 
faces about him, but they were all expectancy. 
Then his fingers wandered to the neck, and he 
tuned the old banjo. Then he began to play. 
He seemed inspired. His listeners stood trans- 
fixed. 

From piece to piece he glided, pouring out 
the music in a silver stream. His old fingers 
seemed to have forgotten their stiffness as they 
flew over the familiar strings. For nearly an 
hour he played and then abruptly stopped. The 
applause was generous and real, but the old man 
only smiled sadly, and with a far-away look in 
his eyes. 

As they turned away, somewhat awed by his 
manner, they heard him begin to play softly an 
old hymn. It was “Hark! From the Tomb.” 

He stopped when but half through, and Rob- 
ert returned to ask him to finish, but his head had 
fallen forward close against the banjo’s neck, 
and there was a smile on his face, as if he had 
suddenly had a sweet memory of Martha. 

163 


WHO STAND FOR THE GODS. 


There was a warm flush of anger on Robert 
Curtis’ face as he ran down the steps of the old 
Stuart mansion. Every one said of this young 
man that he possessed in a marked degree the 
high temper for which his family was noted. 
And one looking at him that night would have 


said that this temper had been roused to the ut- 
most. 
This was not the first time Robert Curtis had 


ridden away from the Stuarts’ in anger. Emily 
Stuart was a high-strung girl, independent, and 
impatient of control, and their disagreements 
had been many. But they had never gone so 


far as this one, and they had somehow always 
blown over. This time the young lover had 
carried away in his pocket the ring with which 
they had plighted their troth, and had gone away 
vowing never to darken those doors again, and 
Emily had been exasperatingly polite and cool, 
though her eyes were flashing as she assured him 
how little she ever wanted to look upon his face 
again. 

It may have been the strain of keeping this 
self-possession that made her break down so 

164 


Who Stand for the Gods 


completely as soon as her lover was out of sight. 
That she did break down is beyond dispute, for 
when Dely came in with a very much disordered 
waistband she found her mistress in tears. 

With the quick sympathy and easy familiarity 
of a favorite servant she ran to her mistress ex- 
claiming, “La, Miss Em’ly, whut’s de mattah ?” 

Her Miss Emily waved her away silently, and 


drying her eyes stood up dramatically. 
‘“Dely,” she said, “Mr. Curtis will not come 


here any more after to-day. Certain things have 
made it impossible. I know that you and Ike are 
interested in each other, and I do not want the 
changed relations between Mr. Curtis and me to 
make any difference to you and Ike.” 

“Ta, Miss Em’ly,” said Dely, surreptitiously 
straightening her waistband, “I don’ keer nuffin’ 
*bout Ike; he ain’t nuffin’ ’tall to me.” 

“Ton’t fib, Dely,” said Emily impressively. 

““*Claih to goodness, Miss Em’ly, I ain’t fib- 
bin’; but even if Ike was anyt’ing to me you know 
I wa’n’t nevah ’spectin’ to go ovah to the Cu’tis 
plantatin ’ceptin’ wid you, w’en you an’ Mas’ 
Bob Bs 

“That will do, Dely.”” Emliy caught up her 


handkerchief and hurried from the room. 
165 


In Old Plantation Days 


‘Po’ Miss Em’ly,” soliloquized Dely; “she 
des natchully breakin’ huh hea’t now, but she 
ain’t gwine let on. Ike, indeed! I ain’t bothahed 
bout Ike,” and then she added, smiling softly, 
“That scamp’s des de same ez a b’ah; he mighty 
nigh ruined my ap’on at de wais’.” 

Robert Curtis was crossing the footbridge 
which separated the Curtis and Stuart farther 
fields before Ike rode up abreast of him. The 
bay mare was covered with dust and foam, and a 
heavy scowl lay darkly on the young man’s face. 

Finding his horse blown by her hard gallop, 
the white man drew rein, and they rode along 
more slowly, but in silence. Not a word was 
spoken until they alighted, and the master tossed 
the reins to his servant. 

“Well,” he said bitterly, “when you go to the 
Stuarts’ again, Ike, you'll have to go alone.” 
“Then I won’t go,” said Ike promptly. 

“Oh, yes, you will; you’re fool enough to be 
hanging around a woman’s skirts, too; you'll 
CON. 

‘‘Whaih you don’ go, I don’ go.” 

“Well, I don’t go to the Stuarts’ any more, 
that’s one thing certain.” Robert was very 
young. 

166 


Who Stand for the Gods 


“Then I don’ go,” returned Ike doggedly; 
‘don’ you reckon I got some fambly feelin’s?”’ 

The young man’s quick anger was melting in 
its own heat, and he laughed in spite of himself 
ashe replied: ‘Neither family feelings nor any- 
thing else count for much when there’s a woman 
in the case.” 

*‘Now, I des wonder,” said Ike, as he led the 
horses away and turned them over to a stable 
boy, “I des wonder how long this hyeah thing’s 
goin’ on? De las’ time they fell out fu’ evah hit 
was fou’ whole days befo’ he give in. I reckon 
this time it might run to be a week.” 

He might have gone on deluding himself thus 
if he had not suddenly awakened to the fact that 
more than the week he had set as the limit of 
the estrangement had passed and he had not yet 
been commanded to saddle a horse and ride over 
to the Stuarts’ with the note that invariably 
brought reconciliation and happiness. 

He felt disturbed in his mind, and his trouble 
visibly increased when, on the next day, which 
was Sunday, Quin, who was his rival in every- 
thing, dressed himself with more than ordinary 
care and took his way toward the Stuarts’. 

167 


In Old Plantation Days 


‘‘Whut’s de mattah wid you, Ike?” asked one 
of the house boys next day; ‘“‘you goin’ to let 
Quin cut you out? He was ovah to Stua’ts’ 
yistiddy, an’ he say he had a ta’in’ down time wid 
Miss Dely.” 

“Oh, I don’ reckon anybody’s goin’ to cut me 
Olltxs 

“Bettah not be so sho,” said the boy; “bettah 
look out.” 

This was too much for Ike. He had been 
wavering; now his determination gave way, yet 
he tried to delude himself. 

‘“Hit’s a shame,” he said. ‘“‘I des know Mas’ 
Bob is bre’kin’ his hea’t to git back to Miss 
Em’ly, an’ hit do seem lak somep’n ’oughter be 
done to gin him a chancet.”’ 

It needed only the visit from his master that 
afternoon to decide him. He was out on the 
back veranda cleaning shoes, when his master 
came and stood in front of him, flicking his 
boots with his riding-whip. 

“Ah, Ike, you haven’t been over to Mr. Stu- 
art’s lately.” 

“No, suh; co’se not; I ain’t been ovah.”’ 

“Well, I don’t believe I’d do that, Ike. Don’t 
let my affair keep you away; you go on and see 

168 


Who Stand for the Gods 


her. You don’t know; she might be sick or 
something, and want to see you. Here’s fifty 
cents; take her something nice.”” And with the 
very erroneous idea that he had fooled both Ike 
and himself, Robert Curtis went down the steps 
whistling. 

“What'd I tell you?” said Ike, addressing the 
shoe which sat upon his hand, and he began to 
hurry. 

Dely was sitting on the doorstep of her 
mother’s cabin as Ike came up. She pretended 
not to see him, but she was dressed as if she 
expected his coming. 

“Howdy, Dely; how you this evenin’?”’ said 
Ike. 

“Ta, Mistah Ike,” said Dely, affecting to be 
startled, “I come mighty nigh not seein’ you. 
Won’t you walk in?” 

“No, I des tek a seat on de do’step hyeah 
*longside you.” 

She tossed her head, but made room for him 
on the step. 

“T ain’t seen you fu’ sev’al days.” 

“You wasn’ blin’ ner lame.” 

“No, but you know,” answered Ike rather 
doggedly. 

169 


In Old Plantation Days 


“T don’ know nuffin’,”’ Dely returned. 

“T wasn’ ’spected to come alone.” 

“Was you skeered ?” 

“Did you want me to come alone?” 

Dely did not deign to answer. 

“T wonder how long this is goin’ on?” pursued 
Ike; “I’m gittin’ mighty tiahed of it.” 

“They ain’t no tellin’. Miss Em’ly she mighty 
high-strung.” 

“Well, hit’s a shame, fu’ them two loves one 
another, an’ they ought to be brought togethah.” 

““Co’se they ought; but how anybody goin’ to 
do it?” 

“You an’ me could try ef you was willin’.”’ 

“T’d do anything fu’ my Miss Em’ly.” 

‘An’ I’d do anything fu’ Mas’ Bob. Come 
an’ le’s walk down by de big gate an’ talk about 
tae 

Dely rose, and together they walked down 
by the big gate, where they stood in long and 
earnest conversation. Maybe it was all about 
their master’s and mistress’ love affair. But a 
soft breeze was blowing, and the moon was shin- 
ing in the way which tempts young people to 
consider their own hearts, however much they 
may be interested in the hearts of others. 

170 


Who Stand for the Gods 


It was some such interest which ostensibly 
prompted Robert Curtis to sit up for Ike that 
night. Ike came into the yard whistling. His 
master was sitting on the porch. 

“Ike, you are happy; you must have had a 
good time.” 

Instantly Ike’s whistle was cut short, and the 
late moonlight shone upon a very lugubrious 
countenance as he answered: 

“Sometimes people whistles to drown dey sor- 
rers. 

“Why, what sorrows have you got? Wasn't 
Dely in a pleasant mood?” 

“Dely’s mighty ’sturbed "bout huh Miss 
Em’ly.” 

“About her Miss Emily!” exclaimed the 
young master in sudden excitement; “‘what’s the 
matter with Miss Emily ?” 

“Oh, Dely says she des seems to be a-pinin’ 


*bout somep’n’. She don’ eat an’ she don’ sleep.”’ 


“Poor litt——” began Curtis, then he 
checked himself. “Hum,” he said. ‘Well, good- 
night, Ike.” 


When Ike had gone in, his master went to 
his room and paced the floor for a long while. 
Then he went out again and walked up and down 


iA 


In Old Plantation Days 


the lawn. ‘‘Maybe I’m not treating her just 
right,” he murmured; “‘poor little thing, but 
”» and he clenched his fist and kept up his 
walking. 

“Tke was here to-night?” said Miss Emily to 
Dely as the maid was brushing her hair that 
night. 


‘“Yes’m, he was hyeah.”’ 

“Yes, I saw him come up the walk early, and 
I didn’t call you because I knew you’d want to 
talk to him,” she sighed. 

“Yes’m, he wanted to talk mighty bad. He 
feelin’ mighty ’sturbed ’bout his Mas’ Bob.” 

The long, brown braid was quickly snatched 
out of her hand as her young mistress whirled 
swiftly round. 

““What’s the matter with his master?” 

“Oh, Ike say he des seem to pine. He don’ 
seem to eat, an’ he don’ sleep.” 

Miss Emily had a sudden fit of dreaming from 
which she awoke to say, ‘That will do, Dely; 
I won’t need you any more to-night.’’ Then she 
put out her light and leaned out of her window, 
looking with misty eyes at the stars. And some- 
thing she saw up there in the bright heavens 
made her smile and sigh again. 


172 


Who Stand for the Gods 


It was on the morrow that Dely told her mis- 
tress about some wonderful wild flowers that 
were growing in the west woods in a certain 
nook, and Dely was so much in earnest about it 
that her mistress finally consented to follow her 
thither. 

Strange to say, that same morning Ike accosted 
his young master with, ‘“‘Look hyeah, Mas’ Bob, 
de birds is sholy thick ovah yondah in that 
stretch o’ beechwoods. I’ve polished up the guns 
fu’ you, ef you want to tek a shot.” 

“Well, I don’t mind, Ike. We'll go for a 
while.” 

It was in this way—quite by accident, of 
course, one looking for strange flowers, and the 
other for birds—that Emily and Robert, with 
their faithful attendants, set out for the same 


stretch of woods. 
Miss Emily was quite despairing of ever find- 


ing the wonderful flowers, and Ike was just pro- 
testing that he himself had ‘‘seen them birds,” 
when all of a sudden Dely exclaimed: ‘Well, 
la! Ef thaih ain’t Mas’ Cu’tis.” 

Miss Emily turned pale and red by turns as 
Robert, blushing like a girl, approached her, hat 
in hand. 

173 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Miss Emily.” 

“Mr. Curtis.” 

Then they both turned to look for their at- 
tendants. Ike and Dely were walking up a side 
path together. They both broke into a laugh 
that would not be checked. 

“It would be a shame to disturb them,”’ Rob- 
ert went on when he could control himself. 
“Emily, I’ve been a 

“Oh, Robert!” 

“Let us take the good that the gods provide.” 

“And they,” said Emily, looking after the 
blacks, ‘‘stand for the gods.” 


174 


A LADY SLIPPER. 


On that particular night in June it pleased 
Miss Emily Stuart to be gracious to Nelson 
Spencer. Robert Curtis was away, attending 
court at the county seat, and really, when one is 
young and beautiful and a woman, it is absolutely 
necessary that there should be some person upon 
whom to try one’s charms. So the lady was gra- 
cious to her ardent, but oft-rejected lover. She 
was sitting on the step of the high veranda and 
he a little below her. Her tiny foot, shod in the 
daintiest of slippers, swung dangerously near him. 
She knew that he was looking admiringly at the 
glimpse of pointed toe which now and then he 
got from beneath her skirt, and it pleased her. 
She was rather proud of that pretty, aristocratic 
foot of hers, not so much because it was pretty 
and aristocratic as because it was hereditary in 
the family and belonged by right of birth to all 
the Stuarts. 

It was a warm, soft night, a night just suited 
for love and dreams. ‘The sky like a blue-black 
cup inverted, seemed pouring a shower of gems 
upon the earth, and the breeze was laden with 

175 


In Old Plantation Days 


the sweet smell of honeysuckle and the heavier 
odor of magnolia blossoms. 

They were not talking much because it wasn’t 
worth while. After an extended period of si- 
lence he looked up at her and sighed, perhaps 
because he wanted to, maybe because he couldn’t 
help it. 

‘What are you sighing for?” she asked. 

“Oh, just at the beauty of things.” 

“Why, that should make you smile.” 

“Not always. If there is sometimes a grief 
too deep for tears, there is at others a joy too 
great for smiles.” 

“You ought to have been a poet, Nelson, you 
are so sentimen a 

“Spare me that.” 

“No I shall not. You are sentimental to 
the last degree.”’ 

“Oh, well, I may be; if it is sentimentality 
to be willing to grovel in the dirt for a lady’s 
slipper, then I am sentimental.” Emily Stuart 
laughed. 

“You know you would look very ridiculous 
groveling in the dirt. Would you really do it 
for my slipper?” 

SON rapa 


176 


A Lady Slipper 


“Tl put you to the test, then; you shall have 
my slipper when I see you grovel.” 

He hesitated. ‘What,’ she laughed, ‘‘am I 
too litera] ?”’ 

“No,” he said; “I mean what I say,” and he 
leaped from the porch to the road beyond and 
fell upon his knees in the dust of the carriage- 
way. 

The spectacle amused Emily, and disgusted 
her no little. A woman pretends that she wants 
a man to abase himself before her, but she never 
forgives him if he does. While he knelt there in 
the road she thought how differently Robert 
would have acted under the circumstances. In- 
stead of groveling, he would probably have said, 
“T’ll be hanged if I do,” and she rather liked the 
thought of his saying that. She knew that so 
far as brains went, Robert could not compare 
with Nelson; she knew, too, that the wisest man 
has the greatest capacity for making a fool of 
himself. 

After an interval, Nelson arose from his posi- 
tion and came back to the veranda. 

“T claim my reward,” he said. 

“Do you think you can rightly call that grov- 
eling?” 

177 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Yes, without a doubt.” 

“Then you shall not go unrewarded,” and, 
turning, she went into the house to return with a 
slipper, a dainty little beribboned thing, which 
she handed to him. She was quite used. to his 
extravagant protestations, and only thought to 
put a light significance upon his words. She was 
unprepared, then, to see him put the slipper into 
his pocket as if he really meant to keep it. 

The evening passed away, and though they 
talked much, no reference was made to the slip- 
per until he rose to go. Then Emily said, ‘Has 
your desire for my slipper been sufficiently satis- 
fied?” 

“Oh, no,” he replied, “I shall keep this as the 
outward sign and the reward of my abasement.”’ 

“You are really not going to keep it?” 

“Oh, but lam. You gave it to me.” 

“I did not mean it in that way.” 

“The sight of me groveling there in the road 
I gave you to remember for all time, and the 
gift that I ask in return is a permanent one.”’ 

“And it is of no use for me to argue with 
you?” 

“None.” 

“Nor plead?” 


178 


A Lady Slipper 


No.’ 

‘Very well,” said Emily with a vain effort at 
calmness, “I wish you joy of your treasure. 
Good-night,” and she went into the house. But 
she watched him from behind the curtain until 
he was quite gone; then she came flying out again 
and made her way hastily toward the quarters 
whither she knew her maid Dely had gone to 
spend the evening. When she had brought her 
to the big house, she exclaimed breathlessly : 

“Oh, Dely, Dely, I am in such trouble!” 

“Do tell we what is de mattah now.” 

“Oh, Nelson Spencer has been here and 

“Miss Em’ly,” Dely broke in, ‘‘you been ca’in 
on wid dat man agin?” 

“Why, Dely, how can you say such things? 
Carrying on, indeed! I was only trying to put 
him in his place by making him ridiculous, but I 
gave him my slipper, and he—he kept it.” 

“He got yo’ slippah? Miss Em’ly, don’ tell 
me dat.” 

“Oh, what shall I do, Dely, what shall I do? 
Suppose Robert should go there and see it on 
his bureau or somewhere—you know they are 
such friends—what would he say? MHe’d be 
bound to recognize it, you know. They’re the 

179 


oP] 


In Old Plantation Days 


ones with the silver buckles and satin bows that 
he liked so well. One could never explain to 
Robert; he’s so impetuous. Dely, don’t stand 
there that way. You must help me.” 

‘What shell I do, Miss Em’ly? I reckon 
you’d bettah go an’ have yo’ pa frail dat slippah 
outen him.” 

“What? Papa? Why, I wouldn’t have him 
to know anything about it for the world.” 

“Why, it ain’t yo’ fault, Miss Em’ly; you 
in de rights of de thing.” 

“Oh, yes, yes, I know, but a thing like that is 
so hard to explain. Dely, you must get that slip- 
per” 

“How I’m goin’ to?” 

“IT don’t know; you’ll have to find some way. 
You'll find some way to get it before Robert 
comes. You will, won’t you, Dely ?” 

‘When do Mas’ Robert come?” 

‘He'll surely be home in a couple of days.” 

‘An he’s mighty cu’ious, ain’t he?” 

“If he should happen to come across that slip- 
per in Nelson Spencer’s room, all would be over 
between us. Oh, Dely, you must find some way.” 

‘Mas’ Nelson Spencah is right sma’t boas’ ful, 
ain't he?” 


180 


A Lady Slipper 


“Oh, Dely.” 

‘You don’t reckon he’d show it to Mas’ Rob- 
ert, do you?” 

“Dely, you’re saying everything to frighten 
me; don’t talk that way.” 

“Miss Em’ly, de truth is de light; but nevah 
min’, [ll try an’ git dat slippah fu’ you.” 

“Oh, Dely, and you shall have that blue 
sprigged muslin dress of mine you liked so 
much.” 

Dely’s eyes gleamed but she answered, ‘‘Nevah 
you min’ about de dress, Miss Em’ly. What we 
wants is de slippah,”’ and the maid departed to 
think. 

For a long while she thought of everything she 
knew, and canvassed every resource within her 
power. Of course, she might make love to Har- 
ry, Spencer’s valet, and have him get the prize 
for her, but then she knew that Ike would be sure 
to find that out and get angry with her. She 
might appeal to Carrie, one of the Spencer house- 
hold, but she knew that Carrie hated her and 
would do anything rather than gratify her slight- 
est wish, for Carrie herself had an eye on Ike. 

181 


In Old Plantation Days 


Then might she not steal it herself? But how to 
effect an entrance to the room of her mistress’ 
enemy ? 

“‘T_awd bless me,’’ she exclaimed suddenly, her 
eyes brightening, “I done fu’git young Mas’ 
Roger. I spec he’ll be snoopin’ roun’ some place 
to-morrer.” 

Now Dely knew that Nelson Spencer had a 
brother, a reckless, disobedient boy, who had just 
arrived at the unspeakable age. Something in 
this knowledge or rather in the sudden recollec- 
tion, sent her flying to the kitchen, where for 
something over two hours she braved Aunt Hes- 
ter’s maledictions while she baked heap upon 
heap of crisp sweet cakes. 

When, hot and tired, she had finished and 
placed them in a cloth-covered jar, she chuckled 
to herself with the remark, ‘‘Now, ef dat don’t 
fetch dat slippah, I reckon Miss Em’ly bettah 
look out fu’ anothah gallant; but I know dat 
boy.” 

On the following morning, the maid, carrying 
a bulging bag, wandered out in the direction of 
the Spencer place, hoping to meet young Roger 
somewhere in the open air, on his pony or nosing 
about the woods on foot. She had said that she 
knew that boy, and she did. Roger was a boy 


182 


A Lady Slipper 


with a precocious appetite. He might be back- 
ward in everything else, but his ability to con- 
sume food was large beyond his years. He lived 
to eat. He went into the house to browse, and 
came out of it to forage. He was insatiable. 
When kitchen and orchard had done their part 
in vain, he had recourse to roots of the field and 
strange, unaccountable plants which would have 
proved his death but for the intervention of that 
Providence which is popularly supposed to take 
care of three certain irresponsible classes of hu- 
manity. 

Dely was not mistaken in thinking he would 
be “‘snooping about” somewhere, for it was not 
long before she saw him walking along the road 
munching an apple and looking for more food. 
She hastened to catch up with him, and, like a 
sensible girl, approached him from the wind- 
ward side. 

“Howdy, Roger?” said Dely invitingly. 

“Hullo, Dely.”’ 

“Whaih you goin’ ?” 

“T don’ know; where are you goin’? eyeing 
the bag. Dely must have put ginger into those 
sweet cakes and Roger’s scent was keen. 

“Oh, I’m jest walkin’ erroun’.” 

; 183 


In Old Plantation Days 


“What you got in your bag?” 

“Now jest listen at dat chile,” exclaimed Dely 
with a well-feigned surprise and admiration. 
“Now who’d a thought you’d tek notice o’ dis 
hyeah ol’ bag. Nev’ you min’ what I got in dis 
bags 

“Seems like I smell somethin’ good.” 

‘Don’ bothah me, Roger; I ain’t got no time 
to fool wid you. Seems to me lak you always 
want to be eatin’ some’p’n.” 

‘Then atas-eatin.»Dely 2° 

“Who said so? Dat’s what I want to know; 
who said so?” 

‘Why, you did, you did, that’s who,” Roger 
cried gleefully. 

“Did I? Well, la sakes! Who'd ’a’ evah 
thought o’ me givin’ myself away dat away? I 
mus’ be gittin’ right rattle-brained. I don’ 
b’lieve I said it.” 

‘Oh, yes, you did. Let’s see, Dely. Do let’s 
Seen 

“Oh, I dassent,’’ said the dissembler. ‘‘Hit’s 
some’p’n fine.” 

Roger fairly danced with excitement. ‘‘Do, 
do,” he pleaded; ‘‘just one little peep.” 

“T’m feared you’ll want to eat some.” 

184 


A Lady Slipper 


“Oh, no, I won’t. Please let me look ?” 

Dely carefully opened the mouth of the bag 
and slowly inclined it toward the eager boy. 
Even before the brown beauty of the cakes broke 
on the boy’s sight the fragrant odor of them had 
reached his nostrils. ‘Then he saw them. Just 
one flash of russet and gold and the maid closed 
the bag with a jerk, but not before she was aware 
that she had a willing slave at her feet. 

“Oh, Dely!” the boy gasped. 

“Well, I mus’ be gittin’ "long now.” 

“Dely, just one. Oh, Dely!” 

‘Now what'd I tell you? Didn’t I say you’d 
be wantin’ one? I cain’t stop to bothah wid you. 
Dese is luck cakes.” 

“Luck cakes?” Roger’s curiosity for the mo- 
ment almost overcame his hunger. ‘What's luck 
cakes?” 

Miss Emily’s diplomat took one of them from 
the bag. 

“You see dis hyeah cake,” she said, holding 
it dangerously near Roger’s nose, while his hands 
twitched, “‘you see dis hyeah cake. Well, ef you 
go out of a mornin’ wid a bag of dese an’ ef any- 
body can bring you a unmatched slippah befo’ 
dey’s all et up, you has luck fu’ de rest 0’ yo’ life, 

185 


In Old Plantation Days 


an’ de pusson what brings de slippah gits de rest 
o’ de cakes.” 

“Gets them all, Dely ?” asked Roger faintly. 

All dat’silef 2 

‘‘Ain’t you eatin’ yourself, Dely ?”’ 

“No, I ain’t lowed to eat em. It’ll spile de 
chawm.” 

Just then Dely let the golden cake drop in his 
hand. When the last crumb had disappeared he 
asked, ‘‘Dely, what’s an unmatched slipper ?”’ 

“Why, it’s one dat ain’t got no mate, of cou’se. 
Jest a one-footed slippah.” 

“Oh, I can get you one.” 

~Youl) De ve'y ideeh?” 

“Yes, I can, too; mamma has lots of odd 
ones.” 

“No, no,” said Dely hastily, “‘you musn’t git 
yo’ mammy’s. No ’ndeedy. Dat ’u’d spile de 
chawm.” 

“Charms are funny things, ain’t they?” said 
the boy. 

“Mighty funny, mighty funny. You nevah 
know whaih dey goin’ to break out. But ’bout 
dis chawm,” and she handed him another cake, 
“you musn’t git de slippah of no lady what be- 
longs to you, ner of no man, ner you musn’t let 

186 


A Lady Slipper 


nobody know dat you teken’ it, fu’ dat ’u’d break 
de chawm, too. De bes’ way is to go in yo’ 
brothah Nelson’s room an’ look erroun’ right 
sha’p, an’ mebbe you might fin’ a little weenchy 
slippah wid ribbons er some’p’n on it, an’ dat’ll 
be de luck slippah.” 

“Oh,” exclaimed Roger, “I know there 
couldn’t be such a slipper in brother Nelson’s 
room.” 

Dely paused dramatically and closed her bag. 
“Well, I got to be goin’,” she said. ‘I mus’ fin’ 
somebody else to bring me de luck slippah.” 

“Pll go, Dely, Pll go,” cried Roger, starting; 
“but Dely, promise you won’t let anybody else 
eat those cakes. It might spoil the charm.” 

“Well, Pll give you anothah one, jes’ fu’ 
strengf,’”’ and she laughed a laugh of triumph as 
the boy sped away. 

“T ’low ef dey’s any slippah thaih he’ll fin’ it, 
"long ez he smell dese hyeah cakes in his min’.” 

Dely had not long to wait for her courier. 
Pretty soon he came bounding toward her waving 
something in his hand. He was radiant. 

“T found it, Dely, I found it, just as you said. 
It was on the bureau. Now I may have the 
cakes, mayn’t I?” 

187 


In Old Plantation Days 


“It’s de luck slippah, thank goodness,,” said 
Dely solemnly as she eagerly clutched the missing 
piece of foot-wear. 

“Now I may have the cakes, mayn’t I?” 
Roger was dancing again. 

“Yes, ef you'll promise you’ll never, never 
tell,” said Dely, ‘‘so’s ’t’ll not break de chawm.” 

‘‘Hope m’ die, Dely.” 

Then she poured the cakes on the ground be- 
side him, and, leaving him to his joy, went home 
laughing to her mistress. 

“How did you get it, Dely?” asked her mis- 
tress, clasping her accusing shoe. 

“Oh, I wo’ked my chawms,” Dely replied. 

Miss Emily was walking along the road that 
evening with thoughtful eyes cast on the ground. 
She knew that Nelson Spencer was behind her. 

“What are you looking for?” he asked as he 
overtook her. 

“A flower,” she said. 

“A flower! What particular one?” 

“A lady-slipper.” 

‘‘Aren’t you a little far south for it?” His 
house was to the north. 

“T think I have found it,” she said, facing him 
and planting both feet firmly within sight. 

188 


> SHE SAID”? 


y 


K I HAVE FOUND IT 


‘I THIN 


66 


A Lady Slipper 


Spencer looked down, and, bowing low, passed 
on, but she could see the flush that started in his 
brow, spreading from cheek to neck, and she 
laughed cheerily. 

Nelson Spencer went home to say unrepeat- 
able things to his valet, the butler, the house- 
keeper and Carrie the maid, in fact, to every- 
body except Roger, who was, at the time, suffer- 
ing the pangs of precocious indigestion. 


189 


A BLESSED DECEIT. 


As Martha said, “it warn’t long o’ any sma’t- 
ness dat de rapscallion evah showed, but des 
‘long o’ his bein’ borned ’bout de same time ez 
young mastah dat Lucius got tuk into de big 
house.’ But Martha’s word is hardly to be 
taken, for she had a mighty likely little picka- 
ninny of her own who was overlooked when the 
Daniels were looking about for a companion for 
the little toddler, their one child. Martha might 
have been envious. However, it is true that Lu- 
cius was born about the same time that his young 
Master Robert was, and it is just possible that 
that might have had something to do with his 
appointment, although he was as smart and likely 
a little darkey as ever cracked his heels on a Vir- 
ginia plantation. Years after, people wondered 
why that black boy with the scarred face and 
hands so often rode in the Daniels’ carriage, did 
so little work, and was better dressed than most 
white men. But the story was not told them; it 
touched too tender a spot in the hearts of all who 
knew. But memory deals gently with old 

190 


A Blessed Deceit 


wounds, and the balm of time softens the keenest 
sorrow. 

Lucius first came to the notice of Mr. Daniels 
when as a two-year-old pickaninny he was rolling 
and tumbling in the sand about the quarters. 
Even then, he could sing so well, and was such a 
cheerful and good-natured, bright little scamp 
that his master stood and watched him in delight. 
Then he asked Susan how old he was, and she 
answered, “‘a, Mas’ Stone, Lucius he ’bout 
two years old now, don’t you ricollec’? He born 
"bout de same time dat little Mas’ Robert came to 
you-alls.”” ‘The master’s eyes sparkled, and he 
tapped the black baby on the head. His caress 
was immediately responded to by a caper of en- 
joyment on the youngster’s part. Stone Daniels 
laughed aloud, and said, ‘Wash him, Susan, and 
I'll send something down from the house by Lou, 
then dress him, and send him on up.”” He turned 
away, and Susan. her heart bounding with joy, 
seized the baby in her arms and covered his round 
black body with kisses. This was a very easy 
matter for her to do, for he only wore one pitiful 
shift, and that was in a sadly dilapidated condi- 
tion. She hurried to fulfil her master’s orders. 


IQ 


In Old Plantation Days 


There was no telling what great glory might 
come of such a command. It was a most won- 
derful blue dress with a pink sash that Lou 
brought down from the house, and when young 
Lucius was arrayed therein, he was a sight to 
make any fond mother’s heart proud. Of course, 


Lucius was rather a deep brunette to wear such 
dainty colors, but plantation tastes are not very 


scrupulous, and then the baby Robert, whose 
garments these had been, was fair, with the 
brown hair of the Daniels, and was dressed ac- 
cordingly. 

Half an hour after the child had gone to the 
big house, Susan received word that he had been 
appointed to the high position of companion in 
chief, and amuser in general to his young master, 
and the cup of her earthly joy was full. One 
hour later, the pickaninny and his master were 
rolling together on the grass, throwing stones 
with the vigorous gusto of two years, and the sad 
marksmanship of the same age, and the blue 
dress and pink sash were of the earth, earthy. 

“T tell you, Eliza,” said Stone, “I think I’ve 
struck just about the right thing in that little ras- 
cal. He'll take the best care of Robert, and I 
think that playing like that out in the sunshine 


192 


A Blessed Deceit 


will make our little one stronger and healthier. 
Why, he loves him already. Look at that out 
there.’ Mrs Daniels did look. The young 
scion of the Daniels house was sitting down in 
the sand and gravel of the drive, and his com- 
panion and care taker was piling leaves, gravel, 
dirt, sticks, and whatever he could find about the 
lawn on his shoulders and head. The mother 
shuddered. 

‘But don’t you think, Stone, that that’s a little 
rough for Robert, and his clothes—oh my, I do 
believe he is jamming that stick down his 
throat!” 

‘Bosh,”’ said Stone, “that’s the way to make a 
man out of him.” 

When the two children were brought in from 
their play, young Robert showed that he had 
been taken care of. He was scratched, he was 
bruised, but he was flushed and happy, and Stone 
Daniels was in triumph. 

One, two, three years the companionship be- 
tween the two went on, and the love between 
them grew. ‘The little black was never allowed 
to forget that he was his Master Robert’s serv- 
ant, but there is a democracy about childhood 
that oversteps all conventions, and lays low all 

193 


In Old Plantation Days 


barriers of caste. Down in the quarters, with 
many secret giggles, the two were dubbed, ‘““The 
Daniels twins.” 

It was on the occasion of Robert’s sixth birth- 
day that the pair might have been seen “‘codgin’ ” 
under the lilac bush, their heads very close to- 
gether, the same intent look on both the black 
and the white face. Something momentous was 
under discussion. The fact of it was, young 
Master Robert was to be given his first party that 
evening, and though a great many children of the 
surrounding gentry had been invited, provision 
had not been made for the entertainment of Lu- 
cius in the parlor. Now this did not meet with 
Robert’s views of what was either right or 
proper, so he had determined to take matters in 
his own hands, and together with his black con- 
federate was planning an amendment of the af- 


fair. 

‘You see, Lucius,” he was saying, “you are 
mine, because papa said so, and you was born the 
same time I was, so don’t you see that when I 
have a birthday party, it is your birthday party 
too, and you ought to be there ?”’ 

‘Co’se,” said Lucius, with a wise shake of the 
head, and a very old look, ‘‘Co’se, dat des de 
way it look to me, Mas’ Robert.” 


194 


A Blessed Deceit 


“Well, now, as it’s your party, it ’pears like to 
me that you ought to be there, and not be foolin’ 
‘round with the servants that the other company 
bring.” 

“Pears lak to me dat I oughter be ’roun’ dah 
somewhah,”’ answered the black boy. 

Robert thought for awhile, then he clapped his 
little knee and cried, “‘I’ve got it, Lucius, I’ve got 
it!” His face beamed with joy, the two heads 
went closer together, and with many giggles and 
capers of amusement, their secret was disclosed, 
and the young master trotted off to the house, 
while Lucius rolled over and over with delight. 

A little while afterwards Robert had a very 
sage and professional conversation with his 
father in the latter’s library. It was only on state 
occasions that he went to Doshy and asked her to 
obtain an interview for him in that august place, 
and Stone Daniels knew that something great 
was to be said when the request came to him. It 
was immediately granted, for he denied his only 
heir nothing, and the young man came in with 
the air and mien of an ambassador bearing mes- 
sages to a potentate. 

What was said in that conversation, and what 
was answered by the father, it boots not here to 

195 


In Old Plantation Days 


tell. It is sufficient to say that Robert Daniels 
came away from the interview with shining eyes 
and a look of triumph on his face, and the news 
he told to his fellow conspirator sent him off into 
wild peals of pleasure. Quite as eagerly as his 
son had gone out to Lucius, Stone Daniels went 
to talk with his wife. 

‘‘I'tell: you, Eliza,” he“said, “there’sino use 
talking, that boy of ours is a Daniels through 
and through. He is an aristocrat to his finger 
tips. What do you suppose he has been in to ask 
me?” 

“T have no idea, Stone,” said his wife, ‘‘what 
new and original thing this wonderful boy of 
ours has been saying now.” 

“You needn’t laugh now, Eliza, because it is 
something new and original he has been saying.” 

“T never doubted it for an instant.” 

‘‘He came to me with that wise look of his; 
you know it?” 

“Don’t 1?” said the mother tenderly. 

‘And he said, ‘Papa, don’t you think as I am 
giving a party, an’ my servant was born "bout 
the same time as I was, don’t you think he ought 
to kinder—kinder—be ’roun’ where people could 


196 


A Blessed Deceit 


see him, as, what do you call it in the picture, 
papa?’ ‘What do you mean?’ I said. ‘Oh, you 
know, to set me off.’ ‘Oh, a background, you 
mean?’ ‘Yes, a background; now I think it 
would be nice if Lucius could be right there, so 
whenever I want to show my picture books or 
anything, I could just say, ‘Lucius, won’t you 
bring me this, or won’t you bring me that?” like 
you do with Scott.’ ‘Oh, but my son,’ I said, ‘a 
gentleman never wants to show off his posses- 
sions.” ‘No, papa,’ he replied, with the most 
quizzical expression I ever saw on a child’s face, 
‘no, I don’t want to show off. I just want to 
kinder indicate, don’t you know, cause it’s a 
birthday party, and that'll kinder make it 
stronger.” 

“Of course you consented?” said Mrs. Dan- 
iels. 

“With such wise reasoning, how could a man 
do otherwise?” He replied, ‘““Don’t you see the 
child has glimmers of that fine feeling of social 
contrast, my dear?” 

“T see,” said Mrs. Daniels, ‘‘that my son Rob- 
ert wants to have Lucius in the room at the party, 
and was shrewd enough to gain his father’s con- 
Cente” 


197 


In Old Plantation Days 


“By the Lord!’ said her husband, ‘“‘but I be- 
lieve you’re right! Well, it’s done now, and I 
can’t go back on my word.” 

“The Daniels twins’ were still out on the 
lawn dancing to the piping of the winds and 
throwing tufts of grass into the air and over their 
heads, when they were called in to be admonished 
and dressed. Peacock never strutted as did Lu- 
cius when, arrayed in a blue suit with shining 
brass buttons, he was stationed in the parlor near 
his master’s chair. “Those were the days when 
even children’s parties were very formal and ele- 
gant affairs. There was no hurrying and scur- 
rying then, and rough and tumble goings-on. 
That is, at first, there was not; when childhood 
gets warmed up though, it is pretty much the 
same in any period of the world’s history. How- 
ever, the young guests coming were received with 
great dignity and formality by their six-year-old 
host. The party was begun in very stately fash- 
ion. It was not until supper was announced that 
the stiffness and awe of the children at a social 
function began to wear off. Then they gathered 
about the table, cheerful and buoyant, charmed 
and dazzled by its beauty. There was a pretty 
canopy over the chair of the small host, and the 

108 


A Blessed Deceit 


dining-room and tables were decorated with 
beautiful candles in the silver candlesticks that 
had been heirlooms of the Daniels for centuries. 
Robert had lost some of his dignity, and laughed 
and chatted with the rest as the supper went on. 
The little girls were very demure, the boys were 
inclined to be a little boisterous. The most 
stately figure in the room was Lucius where he 
was stationed stiff and erect behind his master’s 
chair. From the doorway, the elders looked on 
with enjoyment at the scene. The supper was 
nearly over, and the fun was fast and furious. 
The boys were unable longer to contain the ani- 
mal spirits which were bubbling over, and there 
began surreptitious scufflings and nudges under 
the table. Someone near Robert suddenly sprang 
up, the cloth caught in his coat, two candles were 
tipped over straight into the little host’s lap. 
The melted wax ran over him, and in a twinkle 
the fine frills and laces about him were a mass of 
flames. Instantly all was confusion, the children 
were shrieking and rushing pell-mell from the 
table. They crowded the room in frightened and 
confused huddles, and it was this that barred 
Stone Daniels as he fought his way fiercely to 
his son’s side. But one was before him. At the 
199 


In Old Plantation Days 


first sign of danger to his young master, Lucius 
had sprung forward and thrown himself upon 
him, beating, fighting, tearing, smothering, try- 
ing to kill the fire. He grabbed the delicate 
linen, he tore at the collar and jacket; he was 
burning himself, his clothes were on fire, but he 
heeded it not. He only saw that his master was 
burning, burning before him, and his boy’s heart 
went out in a cry, “Oh, Mas’ Bob, oh, Mas’ 
Bob!” 

Somehow, the father reached his child at last, 
and threw his coat about him. The flames were 
smothered, and the unconscious child carried to 
his room. The children were hurried into their 
wraps and to their homes, and a messenger gal- 
loped away for the doctor. 

And what of Lucius? When the heir of the 
Daniels was in danger of his life no one had time 
to think of the slave, and it was not until he was 
heard moaning on the floor where he had crept 
in to be by his master’s bedside, that it was found 
out that he also was badly burned, and a cot was 
fixed for him in the same room. 

When the doctor came in he shook his head 
over both, and looked very grave indeed. First 
Robert and then his servant was bound and 


200 


A Blessed Deceit 


bandaged, and the same nurse attended both. 
When the white child returned to consciousness 
his mother was weeping over him, and his father 
with face pale and drawn stood at the foot of the 
bed. “Oh, my poor child, my poor child!” 
moaned the woman; “‘my only one!” 

With a gasp of pain Robert turned his face 
toward his mother and said, “Don’t you cry, 
mamma; if I die, [’ll leave you Lucius.” 

It was funny afterwards to think of it, but 
then it only brought a fresh burst of tears from 
the mother’s heart, and made a strange twitch- 
ing about the father’s mouth. 

But he didn’t die. Lucius’ caretaking had 
produced in him a robust constitution, and both 
children fought death and gained the fight. 
When they were first able to sit up—and Robert 
was less inclined to be parted from Lucius than 
ever—the young master called his father into 
the room. Lucius’ chair was wheeled near him 
when the little fellow began: 

“Papa, I want to fess somethin’ to you. The 
night of the party I didn’t want Lucius in for 
indicatin’, I wanted him to see the fun, didn’t I 
Lucius?” 

201 


In Old Plantation Days 
Lucius nodded painfully, and said, ‘‘Uh-huh.” 


“T didn’t mean to ’ceive you, papa, but you 
know it was both of our birthdays—and—er—”’ 
Stone Daniels closed his boy’s mouth with a kiss, 
and turned and patted the black boy’s head with 
a tender look on his face, ‘‘For once, thank God, 
it was a blessed deceit.” 

That is why in years later, Lucius did so little 
work and dressed like his master’s son. 


202 


THE BRIEF CURE OF AUNT FANNY. 


Some people grow old gracefully, charmingly. 
Others, with a bitter reluctance so evident that 
it detracts from whatever dignity might attach 
to their advanced period of life. Of this latter 
class was Aunt Fanny. She had cooked in the 
Mordaunt kitchen for more years than those 
hands who even claimed middle-age cared to 
remember. But any reference to the length of 
time she had passed there was keenly resented by 
the old woman. She had been good-looking in 
her younger days, sprightly, and a wonderful 
worker, and she held to the belief in her capabili- 
ties long after the powers of her youth and 
middle-age were gone. She was still young when 
her comrades, Parker, Tempe, Doshy and Mam 
Henry had duly renounced their sins, got religion 
and confessed themselves old. She had danced 
beyond the time when all her comrades had 
grown to the stage of settled and unfrivolous 
Christianity. Indeed, she had kept up her gayety 
until she could find no men old enough to be her 
partners, and the young men began to ignore her; 
then she went into the Church. But with the 


203 


In Old Plantation Days 


cooking, it was different. Even to herself, after 
years had come and brought their infirmities, she 
would not admit her feebleness, and she felt that 
she had never undergone a greater trial or en- 
dured a more flagrant insult than when Maria 
was put into the kitchen to help her with her 
work. Help her with her work, indeed! Who 
could help her? In truth, what need had she of 
assistance? Was she not altogether the most 
famous cook in the whole county? Was she 
not able by herself to cope with all the duties 
that could possibly devolve upon her? Resent- 
ment renewed her energy, and she did her work 
with an angry sprightliness that belied her years. 
She browbeat Maria and made her duties a 
sinecure by doing everything just as she had done 
before her rival’s appearance. 

It was pretty hard for the younger woman, 
who also was active and ambitious, and there 
were frequent clashes between the two, but Aunt 
Fanny from being an autocrat had gained a con- 
sciousness of power, and was almost always vic- 
torious in these bouts. ‘Uh huh!” she said to 
Tempe, discussing the matter. “They ain’t 
gwine to put no upstart black ’ooman oveh me, 
aftah all de yeahs I’s been in dat kitchen. I 


204 


The Brief Cure of Aunt Fanny 


knows evah brick an’ slat in it. It uz built fu’ 
me, an’ I ain’t gwine let nobody tek it f’om me. 
No, suh, not ontwell de preacheah done tho’wed 
de ashes on dis haid.” 

“We’s all gittin’ ol’, dough,” said Tempe 
thoughtfully, “‘an’ de young ones got to tek ouah 
Place.” 

“Gittin’ ol’! gittin’ ol’!” Aunt Fanny would 
exclaim indignantly; “I ain’t gittin’ ol’. I des’ 
ez spry ez I was w’en I was a gal.” And by 
her work she made an attempt to bear out her 
statement. 

It would not do, though; for Time has no 
illusions. Neither is he discreet, and he was tell- 
ing on Aunt Fanny. 

The big house, too, had felt for a long time 
that she was failing, but the old master had 
hesitated to speak to her, but now he felt that 
she was going from bad to worse, and that some- 
thing must be done. It was hard speaking to 
her, but when morning after morning the break- 
fast was unpardonably late, the beaten biscuits 
were burned and the cakes tough, it appeared 
that the crisis had come. Just at this time, too, 
Maria made it plain that she was not being given 
her proper share of responsibility, and Stuart 

205 


In Old Plantation Days 


Mordaunt, the old master, went down to remon- 
strate with Aunt Fanny. 

“Now, Fanny,” he said, ‘“‘you know we have 
never complained of your cooking, and you have 
been serving right here in this kitchen for forty 
years, haven’t you ?” 

“Yes, I has, Mas’ Stua’t,” said Aunt Fanny, 
‘an’ I wish I could go right on fu’ fo’ty yeahs 
Moe 

“T wish so, too, but age is telling on you just 
as it is on me;” he put his hand to his white 
head. ‘‘It is no use your working so hard any 
more.” 

“I want to work hard,” said Aunt Fanny 
tremulously; “‘hit’s my life.” 

“But you are not able to do it,” said Mor- 
daunt forcibly; ‘‘you are too old, Fanny.” 

She turned on him a look eager, keen and 
argumentative. 

I’s_ moughty sho’ you older’n me, Mas’ 
Stua’t,”’ she said. 

“T know it,” he said hastily. “Didn’t I just 
say that age was telling on us both?” 

“You ain’t quit runnin’ de plantation yit,’”’ was 
the calm reply. 


206 


The Brief Cure of Aunt Fanny 


The master was staggered for a moment, but 
he hurriedly rallied: ‘No, I haven’t, but I am 
a good deal less active than I was twenty, ten, 
even five years ago. I don’t work much, I only 
direct others—and that’s just what I want you 
to do. Be around, direct others, and teach 
Maria what you know.” 

“Tt ain’t in huh,” sententiously. 

‘‘Put it in her; some one had to teach you.” 

“No, suh, I was a born cook. Nemmine, I 
see you want to git rid o’ me; nemmine, M’ria 
kin have de kitchen.” The old woman’s voice 
was trembling and tears stood in her eyes, 
big and glistening. Mordaunt always gentle- 
hearted, gave in. “Well, confound it, Fanny,” 
he broke in, ‘‘do as you please; I’ve nothing more 
to say. I suppose we'll have to go on eating 
your burned biscuits and tough batter-cakes as 
long as you please. ‘That’s all I have to say.” 

But with Maria there was no such easy yield- 
ing; for she knew that she had the power of the 
big house behind her, and in the next bout with 
Aunt Fanny she held her own and triumphed 
for the first time. The older woman’s anger 
knew no bounds. She went sullenly to her cabin 
that night, and she did not rise the next morning 


207 


In Old Plantation Days 


when the horn blew. She told those who in- 
quired that she was sick, and “I ’low,” she in- 
variably added, ‘‘dat I’s either got the rheumatiz 
or dat black wench has conju’ed me so’s to git my 
kitchen, ’case she knowed dat was de only way 
to git it.” 

Now Aunt Fanny well knew that to accuse one 
of her fellow-servants of calling in the aid of the 
black art was to bring about the damnation of 
that other servant if the story gained credence, 
but even she doubted that the plantation could 
believe anything so horrible of one so generally 
popular, who, besides, had her own particular 
following. Among the latter Mam Henry was 
not wont to be numbered, but she was a woman 
who loved to see fair play, and after having 
visited Aunt Fanny in her cabin, she said in 
secret to Aunt Tempe: 

“Fanny she don’t look lak no conju’ed ooman 
to me, an’ I’s gwine fin’ out whether dey’s any- 
thing de matter wid huh a-tall, ’case I don’ 
b’lieve dey is. I b’lieve she’s des’ in one o’ huh 
tantrums, ’case M’ria stood huh down ’bout de 
kitchen.” 

Aunt Tempe had answered: ‘Dey ain’t no 
’sputin’ dat Fanny is gittin’ ol’ an’ doty.” 


208 


The Brief Cure of Aunt Fanny 


The sick woman or malingerer, whichever she 
was, did not see the subtle motive which 
prompted Mam Henry’s offer to nurse and doc- 
tor her. She looked upon it as an evidence of 
pure friendship and a tribute to her own worth 
on the plantation. She saw in Mam Henry, a 
woman older even than herself, a trusted ally in 
revolt against the advances of youth, and she 
anticipated a sympathetic listener into whose ears 
she might pour her confidences. As to her pow- 
ers as a curer and a nurse, while Mam Henry 
was not actually “‘long-headed,” she was known 
to be both ‘‘gifted” and “‘wise,” and was close 
in the confidence of Dr. Bass, the conjure man, 
himself. 

Although Maria went her way about the 
kitchen, and made the most of her new-found 
freedom, she heard with grief and consternation, 
not unmingled with a wholesome fear, the accu- 
sations which her old enemy was making against 
her. She trembled for what the plantation would 
say and do, and for what her master would think. 
Some of her misgivings she communicated to 
Aunt Tempe, who reassured her with the remark, 
‘“‘Nevah you min’, chile, you des go ’long an’ do 


209 


In Old Plantation Days 


yo’ wo’k, dey’s things wo’kin’ fu’ you in de 
datk 2? 

Meanwhile, Mam Henry had duly installed 
herself in her patient’s cabin and entered upon 
her ministrations. The afflicted arm and leg 
were covered with greased jimson weed and 
swathed in bandages. 

“*Tain’t no use doin’ dis, Mam Henry,” Aunt 
Fanny protested, “ ’tain’t a bit o’ use. I’s hyeah 
to tell you dat dis mis’ry I’s sufferin’ wid ain’t no 
rheumatiz, hit’s des plain conju’, an’ dey ain’t 
nuffin’ gwine to do no good but to meet trick wid 
trick.” 

“You lay low, chile,” answered Mam Henry 
impressively. “I got my own idees. I’s gwine 
to use all de rheumatiz cuohs, an’ den ef you 
ain’t no bettah, de sign will be sho’ ez de wo’d 
dat you’s been tricked. Den we gwine to use 
othah things.” 

Aunt Fanny closed her eyes and resigned her- 
self. She could afford to wait, for she had a 
pretty definite idea herself what the outcome 
would be. 

In the long hours that the old women were 
together it was quite natural that they should 
fall into confidences, and it was equally natural 


210 


The Brief Cure of Aunt Fanny 


that Aunt Fanny should be especially interested 
in the doings of the kitchen and the big house. 
Her mistress had brought her some flannels, and 
good things to eat, and, while she had sym- 
pathized with her, she felt that nothing could 
have been more opportune than this illness that 
settled the question of the cooking once and for- 
ever. In one of their talks, Aunt Fanny asked 
her nurse what “Ol Miss ’Liza say ’bout me 
bein’ sick.” 

‘She say she moughty so’y fu’ you, but dat 
’tain’t no mo’ den she ’spected anyhow, case de 
kitchen kin’ o’ open an’ you gittin’ too ol’ to be 
‘roun’, ’sposin’ yo’se’f to all kin’ o’ draughts.” 

“Humph!”’ sniffed Aunt Fanny from the bed, 
and she flirted the rheumatic arm around in a 
way that should have caused her unspeakable 
pain. She never flinched, however. 

“She don’t b’lieve you conju’ed,”’ Mam Henry 
went on. ‘‘She say dat’s all foo’ishness; she say 
you des’ got de rheumatiz, dat w’en you git up 
you gotter stay closah to yo’ cabin, an’ not be 
flyin’ ’roun’ whaih you tek mo’ col’.” 

This time the rheumatic leg performed some 
gyrations unheard of from such a diseased mem- 
late e 

2II 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Mam Henry,” said Aunt Fanny solemnly, 
“‘ain’t it cu’ious how little w’ite folks know ’bout 
natur ?” 

“Tt sho is. Ol Mas’ he say he gwine ’tiah 
mos’ of de ol’ servants, an’ let ’em res’ fu’ de 
balance o’ dey days, case dey been faifful, an’ 
he think dey ’serve it. I think so, too. We 
been wo’kin’ all ouah days, an’ I know ol’ Time 
done laid his han’ heavy on my back. Ain’t I 
right?” 

‘“Humph!” from the bed. ‘Some people 
ages quicker’n othahs.” 

“Dat’s de Gospel. Now wid you an’ me an’ 
Tempe an’ Pahkah an’ Doshy, dey ain’t been 
nuffin quick ’bout hit, case I tell you, Fanny, 
chile, we’s been hyeah lo dese many days.” 

“How M’ria git erlong?” Aunt Fanny asked 
uneasily. 

“Oh, M’ria she des’ tickled to deaf. She 
flyin’ ’roun’ same ez a chicken wid his haid wrung 
off. She so proud o’ huhse’f dat she des cain’t 
res’, she cain’t do enough. She scourin’ an’ she 
cleanin’ an’ she cookin’ all de time, an’ w’en she 
ain’t cookin’ she plannin what she gwine to cook. 
I hyeah ol’ mas’ say dat she sholy was moughty 
peart, an’ I ‘low huh battah-cakes was somep’n 


212 


The Brief Cure of Aunt Fanny 


scrumptious. Mas’ Stua’t et a mess; he ‘low dat 
ef M’ria keep on mekin’ such cakes as she mek 
in de mornin’, de m’lasses bar’! ain’t gwine hol’ 
out no time. 

Aunt Fanny looked nervously toward her bro- 
gans in the corner. The camel’s back was being 
pretty heavily laden, and a faint smile flickered 
over Mam Henry’s shrewd face. 

“You des’ ought to see de aihs M’ria teks on 
huhse’f. She allus struttin’ erroun’ wid a w’ite 
ap’on on soon’s huh wo’k’s done, an’ she calls 
huhse’f de big house cook.” 

This was the last straw. The camel’s back 
went with a figurative crash. The covers were 
thrown back, and Aunt Fanny sprang up and 
seated herself on the side of the bed. 

‘““Ffan’ me my shoes,”’ she said. 

“W’y, Fanny, fo’ de Lawd!’’ cried Mam 
Henry in well-feigned surprise. “What you 
gwine do?” 

“T’s gwine git up f’om hyeah, dat’s what I’s 
gwine do. Han’ me my shoes.” 

“But yo’ rheumatiz, yo’ rheumatiz ?” 

“T ain’t got no rheumatiz. You done cuohed 
me,” she said, slipping into her dress as she spoke. 


213 


In Old Plantation Days 


“But you ain’t gin me de chanst to try all de 
cuohs yit; s’posen you tu’ns out to be conju’ed 
aftah all.” 

‘‘Ain’t ol’ miss done say hit all foolishness ?” 

“But you done say de w’ite folks don’t know 
nuffin ‘bout natur.”’ 

“T ain’t got no time to bantah wo’ds wid you, 
Mam Henry, I got to go to my wo’k. I ain’t 
gwine let my kitchen be all messed up an’ my 
w ite folks’ appetites plum spiled by dat know- 
nuffin wench.” And Aunt Fanny walking with 
an ease that bore out her statement that she was 
cured swept out of the house with scant courtesy 
to her nurse, who remained behind, shaking with 
laughter. 

“T said so, I said so,” she said to herself. ‘“‘I 
knowed dey wa’nt nuffin’ de mattah wid Fanny 
but de tantrums.” 

Maria was a good deal surprised and not at all 
pleased when, a little later; her old rival appeared 
upon the scene and began to take charge of things 
in the old way. 

“Wy, Aunt Fanny,” she said, “I t’ought you 
was sick ?” 


214 


The Brief Cure of Aunt Fanny 


“You don’t s’pose I’s gwine to stay sick all de 
time, do you?” was the short response. “I 
wants you to know I’s cuohed.” 

Then Maria bridled. Her unlimited author- 
ity in the last few days had put added spirit into 
her. 

“Look a-hyeah, Aunt Fanny,” she said, “‘I sees 
thoo you now. You des been sick ’case you 
couldn’t have yo’ own way, an’ you wanted to 
mek b’lieve I conju’ed you so de folks would 
drive me out, didn’t you? But sick er no sick, 
conju’ er no conju’, cuohed er no cuohed, dis is 
my kitchen, an’ I ain’t gwine gin it up to no 
*ooman.” 

Later on the services of the master had to be 
called in again, and he also began to understand. 

“Well, it’s this way, Fanny,” he said; “‘you 
might be cured now, but if you stay around here 
you are likely to be taken down again. You are 
apt to become subject to these attacks, so you 
had better go back to your cabin and stay around 
there. Maria is going to take charge of the 
kitchen now, and when we need you, you can 
come up and cook something special for your old 
Miss and me.” 

215 


In Old Plantation Days 


The old woman would have protested, but 
there was a firm ring in her master’s voice which 
was not to be mistaken, and she went tearfully 
back to her cabin, where, though so suddenly 
“‘cuohed,”” she was immediately taken ill again, 
more seriously, if possible, than before. 


216 


THE STANTON COACHMAN. 


The morning sun touched the little old-fash- 
ioned Virginia church with glory, while in the 
shadow of its vine-covered porch an old negro 
alternately mumbled to himself and dozed. 

It was not yet time for the service to begin, 
and as I stood watching the bees go in and out 
of the honeysuckle vines there came up the road 
and halted at the door a strange equipage. Side 
by side upon the one seat of an ox-cart sat a ne- 
gro, possibly fifty years of age, and an old white 
lady. No one could have mistaken her for one 
of the country women coming in from any of the 
adjoining farms, for she was unmistakably a 
lady, from the white hair which crowned her 
high-bred face to the patched and shabby shoe 
that peeped from under her dress as she alighted. 
The black man had leaped down and, holding 
in one hand the ropes that did duty as reins, 
helped her tenderly to the ground. 

The grace and deference of his manner were 
perfect, and she accepted his service with a cer- 
tain genial dignity that bespoke custom. She 
went her feeble way into the church, and I was 


217 


In Old Plantation Days 


surprised to see the dozing old negro wake into 
sudden life, spring up and doff his cap as she 
passed. Meanwhile, at the heads of the lazy 
oxen stood the shabby servitor, erect and fine- 
looking, even in the tattered garments that cov- 
ered his form. 

The scene would have been ludicrous if there 
had not been about it an air of dignified earnest- 
ness that disarmed ridicule. You could almost 
have imagined that black tatterdemalion there a 
coachman in splendid livery, standing by the side 
of his restless chargers, and that ox-cart with its 
one seat and wheels awry might have been the 
most dashing of victorias. What had I stumbled 
upon—one of those romances of the old South 
that still shed their light among the shadows of 
slavery? 

The old negro in the porch had settled him- 
self again for a nap, but I disregarded his in- 
clination and, the service forgotten, approached 
him: “Howdy, Uncle.” 

“Howdy, son, howdy; how you come on?” 

“Oh, I’m tol’able peart,”’ I answered, falling 
easily into his manner of speech. “I was just 
wondering who the old lady was that went in 
church just now.” 


218 


The Stanton Coachman 


He looked up questioningly for a minute, and 
then being satisfied of my respect, replied, “Dat 
uz de Stanton lady—Ol’ Mis’ Stanton.” 

“And the black man there ?”’ 

“Dat’s Ha’ison; dat’s de Stanton coachman. 
I reckon you ain’t f’om hyeah?” 

“No, but I should like to know about them.” 

“Oomph, hit’s a wonder you ain’t nevah 
hyeahed tell 0’ de Stantons. I don’ know whah 
yo’ been at, man. Why, evahbody knowed de 
Stantons roun’ ’bout hyeah. Dey wuz de riches’ 
folks anywhah roun’.” 

“Well to do, were they?” 

“Well to do! Man, whut you talkin’ ’bout? I 
tell you, dem people wuz rich, dey wuz scand’- 
lous rich. Dey owned neahly all de dahkies in 
de county, an’ dey wasn’t no hi’in’ out people, 
neithah. I didn’t ‘long to dem, but I allus 
wished I did, ’case Y 

“But about Harrison?” 

“Ez I were goin’ to say, my ol’ mastah hi’ed 
out, an’ I wuz on de go mos’ all de time, ’case I 
sholy wuz spry an’ handy dem days. Ha’ison, 
he wuz de coachman, an’ a proudah, finah- 
dressed dahky you nevah seed in all yore bo’n 
days. Oomph-um, but he wuz sta’chy! Dey 


219 


In Old Plantation Days 


had his lib’ry made at de same place whah dey 
made de ol’ Cunnel’s an’ de young mastah’s 
clothes, an’ dey wuz sights. Such gol’ buttons, 
an’ long coats, an’ shiny hats, an’ boots es 
The old man paused and shook his head, as if 
the final glory had been reached. “Dey ain't 
no mo’ times lak dat,’ he went on. ‘Hit used 
to be des lak a pu’cession when Ha’ison come 
ridin’ down de road on top o’ de Stanton ca’ige. 
He sot up thar des ez straight, de hosses a 
prancin’, an’ de wheels a glistenin’, an’ he 
nevah move his naik to de right er de lef, no 
mo’n ef he wuz froze. Sometimes you could git 
a glimpse o’ de mistus’ face inside, an’ she wuz 
allus beautiful an’ smilin’, lak a real lady ought 
to be, an’ sometimes dey’d have de ca’ige open, 
an’ de Cunnel would come a ridin’ down ’long- 
side o’ hit on one o’ his fine hosses, an’ Ha’ison 
ud sit straightah dan evah, an’ you couldn’ a tol’ 
wheddah he knowed de footman wuz a sittin’ 
side o’ him er not. 

“Dey wuz mighty good to all de people, de 
Stantons wuz, an’ dey faihly id’lized dem. Why, 
ef Miss Dolly had a stahted to put huh foot on 
de groun’ any time she’d a had a string o’ nig- 
gers ez long ez f’om hyeah to yandah a layin’ 


220 


The Stanton Coachman 


daihse’ves in de paf fu’ huh to walk on, fu’ dey 
sholy did love huh. . An’ de Cunnel, he wuz de 
beatenes’ man. He could nevah walk out on de 
plantation ’dout a whole string o’ piccaninnies a 
followin’ aftah him. Dey knowed whut dey wuz 
doin’, fu’ aftah while de Cunnel tu’n roun’ an’ 
th’ow ’em a whole lot o’ coppers an’ fips, an’ 
bless yore hea’t, sich anothah scram’lin’ an’ 
rollin’ an’ a tumblin’ in de dus’ you nevah seed. 
Well, de Cunnel, he’d stan’ thar an’ des natchelly 
crack his sides a-lafin’ ontwell dey wuz thoo 
fightin’, den he call up dem dat hadn’t got nuffin’ 
an’ give ’em daih sheer, so’s to see ’em all go off 
happy, a-hollerin’ “Thanky, Mas’ Stant’, thanky, 
mastah!’ I reckon any fips dey gits now dey 
has to scratch fu’ wuss’n dey did den. Dem wuz 
wunnerful times! | 
“Den come long de time o’ de wah, an’ den 
0’ co’se I oughtn’ say hit, but de Cunnel, he make 
a great big mistake; he freed all de niggahs. 
Hit wuz des dis away: de Stantons, dey freed all 
daih servants right in de middle o’ de wah, an’ 
o’ cose nobody couldn’ stan’ ag’inst daih wo’d, so 
freedom des spread. Mistah Lincoln mought ’a’ 
been all right, but he didn’ have nothin’ to do 


wid hit. Hit wuz Mas’ Stanton, dat who it wuz. 
221 


In Old Plantation Days 


Ef hit wasn’, huccome Mas’ Stanton keep all de 
sarvants he want, eben ef he do pay ’em wages? 
Huccome he keep Ha’ison, ’ceptin’ he writ home 
to his lady? He wuz at de wah, an’ thar wasn’ 
no mo folks on de place, ’ceptin’ a sarvant, 
w’en hit all come up. Hia’ison he layin’ flat on 
his back sick in his cabin, an’ not able to do nuf- 
fin a-tall. Seemed lak dey’d a freed a no-count 
dahky lak dat; but, no, suh, ol’ Mis’ sont Marfy 
to nuss him, an’ sont him all kin’ o’ contraptions 
to git him well, an’ ol’ Doctah Ma’maduke Wil- 
son he come to see him. 

“Den w’en Ha’ison got up ol’ Mis’ went down 
to see him, an’ tuk him his wages, an’ ’sisted on 
payin’ him fu’ de th’ee months he’d been a-layin 
thar, ’case she said he wuz free an’ he’d need all 
de money he could git. Den Ha’ison, he des 
broke down, an’ cried lak a baby, an’ said he 
nevah ’spected dat ol’ Mis’ ’ud evah put any sich 
disgrace erpon him, an’ th’owed de money down 
in de dus’ an’ fell down on his knees right thar in 
all his unifo’m. 

‘Mis’ Stanton, she cry, too, an’ say she didn’ 
mean no ha’m to him. Den she tell him to git 
up, an’ he ’fuse to git up, ’ceptin she promise dat 
he allus gwine to drive huh des lak he been doin’. 


222 


& 
“a 


The Easter Wedding 


jections. He surrendered and gave his consent 
to the marriage of Sukey’s Lize and his boy 
Ben on the Monday following Easter. Great 
were the rejoicings that attended the announce- 
ment of the affair, and because Sukey herself was 
a great person on the plantation and Ben his mas- 
ter’s valet, the wedding was to be no small one. 

As the days passed the preparations were hast- 
ened. ‘The mistress herself went into town and 
purchased such a dress as only Sukey’s daughter 
could have thought of wearing, even though both 
Easter and her wedding day came at the same 
time. The young mistress, she who had married 
early but was widowed and sad now, had brought 
out a once used orange wreath and a veil as filmy 
as a fairy spider’s web, and both the white 
mother and daughter took as deep an interest in 
the affair as did the two black women. While 
Sukey and Liza spun and wove they laughed, 
chatted and sewed, and they could not under- 
stand why Robert Lancaster kept so close to his 
library and looked on at all the preparations with 
no gladness in his eyes and no mirth on his 
tongue. He was closeted often with strange men 
from town, but they thought very little of that. 
He was a popular man, and it was not to be won- 


227 


In Old Plantation Days 


dered at that he should be visited by people who 
did not know him. 

It may have been that Robert Lancaster was 
an arch dissembler or only that he was less trans- 
parent than his brother, the good and child-like 
rector, who cared for the souls of the whole 
country, and for the bodies of one-half its popu- 
lation and took no thought for the morrow. It 
was on his face that they first saw the cloud that 
hung over them all. Robert himself was slow 
to confess it, and when his wife went to him and 
taxed him with holding something from her, 
some trouble on his mind that he was bear- 
ing alone, he confessed all, and she took up 
the burden of it with him. For some time 
past things had gone badly with him. He had 
been careless of his crops and over-indulgent 
with his servants. A man drawn apart from 
the mere commercial pursuits of life to the 
quieter world of literature and art, he had paid 
little attention to the affairs of his plantation, 
and suddenly he awoke to find his overseer rich 
and himself poor. Little or nothing was left 
of all that had been his, except his wife, his 
daughter and his memories. But what grieved 
him most was that his slaves, beings whom he 


228 


The Easter Wedding 


had treated almost as his own children, whom he 
had indulged and spoiled until they were not fit 
to work for any other master, would have to be 
put upon the block. He knew what that meant, 
and felt all the horror of it. He had fostered 
fidelity among them and he knew that now it 
would fall back upon them, bringing only suffer- 
ing and pain, for wives and husbands who had 
been together for years must be separated and 
whole families broken up. 

“It was for this reason, Dolly,” he said, “‘that 
I objected to the marriage of Ben and Eliza. 
They are two, good, whole-souled darkies, and 
they love each other, I suppose, as well as we 
ever could have loved, and it seems hard to let 
them go into the farce of marrying with the 
chance of being separated again in three or four 
weeks.” 

““Won’t you be able to keep them anyway, 
Robert?” asked his wife. 

“No, Iam sorry I cannot. I shall keep a few 
of the older servants who would be absolutely 
useless to a new master, but the greed of my 
creditors will swallow everything that is of any 
commercial value.” 


229 


In Old Plantation Days 


His wife put her arms about his neck and laid 
her cheek against his. 

“Never mind, Robert,” she said, ‘‘never mind. 
We have our Dolly still, and each other. ‘Then 
there is James, so we shall get on very well, after 
alley 

“But what of Ben and Eliza?” 

“Well, let them dream their dream while they 
may. If the dream be short, it will at least be 
sweet.” 

“Tt is not right,” her husband said, “‘it is not 
right. It is giving them a false hope which is 
bound to be dashed when the sale comes.” 

‘Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof,” 
said his brother James, crossing the threshold. 
He joined his word to his sister-in-law’s, and to- 
gether they persuaded the broken man to let the 
marriage go on, to let the two servants sup what- 
ever of joy there might be for them. ‘‘Perhaps,”’ 
added the always sanguine rector, ‘“‘some man 
will be good enough to buy the two together. 
Anyway, we can try.” 

By an effort his voice was cheerful and his 
manner buoyant, but on his face there was a 
deeper shadow than that which clouded the 
brows of his brother, for now when his all was 


230 


The Easter Wedding 


gone from which so many had received bounty, 
what would the poor of the county do?” 

The sad conversation was hardly finished 
when Aunt Sukey came in. It was something 
more that she had to say about “‘de weddin’ 
fixin’s.”” She was delighted and garrulous. 

‘Tell you what, Mas’ Lancaster,” she said, 
“hit do seem to me lak ol’ times agin, all dis fixin’ 
an’ ca’inon. ’Pears to me lak de day o’ my man 
Jeems done come back agin. Yo’ spe’t, yo’ man- 
nah an’ yo’ dispersition an’ evahthing des de spit- 
tin’ image of yo’ pa. *Tain’t no wunner day 
named you Robbut aftah him. I ’membah how 
he say to me w’en Jeems come a-courtin’, ‘Sukey,’ 
he say, ‘Sukey, you gwine ma’y Jeems right, you 
gwine ma’y him wid a preachah, an’ you gwine to 
live wid him ’twell you die. Dain’t gwine to be 
no jumpin’ ovah de broom an’ pa’tin’ in a year 
on my plantation. You gwine to all de famblies. 
La, bless yo’ soul! wen Jeems an’ me ma’ied, we 
had de real preachah dah, an’ we stood up an’ 
helt han’s an’ ’peated ovah, “twell deaf do us 
pa’t,’ des lak white folks. It sho did mek me 
monst’ous happy an’ glad w’en I foun’ out you 
gwine to do de same wid ’Lize an’ Ben. ’Lize 
she a good gal, an’ Ben be stiddy, an’ Mas’ 


231 


In Old Plantation Days 


Jeems,”’ she said, turning to the rector, “I know 
you ain’t gwine ’fuse to ma’y ’em out on de po’ch 
des lak me an’ Jeems was ma’ied. Hit’ll do my 
ol’ eyes good. I kin o’ believe my soul be fit fu’ 
glory den.” 

The clergyman cleared his throat to speak, but 
the old woman broke in. ‘You ain’t gwine 
’fuse, Mas’ Jeems? ’Lize an’ Ben dey loves one 
’nothah in de real ma’in’ way an’ dey hea’ts des 
sot on you jinin’ ’em.” 

The brothers gazed for a moment into each 
other’s eyes, and then James said huskily: “All 
right, Aunt Sukey, I'll do it.” 

She went away happy, but over the inmates of 
the big house a gray pall of sorrow fell. 

Easter radiant with flowers and birds and the 
glorious Southern sunshine came but ’Lize had 
another use for her holiday dress, and Ben was 
ashamed to go, so neither of them went to the 
church service; a gladder, holier service waited 
for them. There followed a happy Monday, 
then the night of the wedding came and the 
long procession of servants marched from Aunt 
Sukey’s cabin in the quarters up to the big house. 
The porch was garlanded and_ festooned. 
Under the farther end, near where the bridal 


232 


The Easter Wedding 


pair would stand, sat the master’s family; the 
dark-robed widow, whose mind went back sadly 
to her own brief married life, the master, the 
mistress, and the rector. His face was pale and 
set, but as the strange, weird wedding song of 
the Negroes came to his ears and they marched 
up the steps, stiff, awkward, but proud, in the 
best clothes they could muster, he tried to call 
back to his features the far smile which had al- 
ways been so ready to welcome them. Eliza and 
Ben led the way. She radiant in her new finery 
smiling and bridling, Ben shame-faced, head 
hung and shuffling, and behind them Aunt Sukey 
in all the glory of a new turban and happy as she 
had been with her Jeems years and years ago. 
They halted before the preacher and he 
pressed his brother’s hand and stood up. The 
servants gathered around them, eager and ex- 
pectant. The wedding hymn died away into the 
night, a low minor sob, as much of sorrow in it 
as of joy, as if it foreshadowed all that this mar- 
riage was and was not. Just as the last faint 
echo died away into the woods that skirted the 
lawn and the waiting silence was most intense, 
the hoot of an owl smote upon their ears and 
Eliza turned ashen with fear. She gripped Ben’s 
233 


In Old Plantation Days 


arm; it was the worst of omens. James Lancaster 
knew the superstitions of the people and as he 
heard the cry of the evil bird, his book shook in 
his hand. Was it prophetic? His voice trem- 
bled with more than one emotion as he began: 
“Dearly beloved—” 

The ceremony ran on, a deep-toned solo with 
an accompaniment of the anxious breathing of 
the onlookers. Then the preacher hesitated. 
He turned for an instant and looked at his 
brother, and in the glance was all the agony of 
a wounded heart. His next words were uttered 
in a scarcely audible tone, “‘till death do us part.” 
And after him they all unknowing, repeated, 
“*twell deaf do us pa’t.” 

It was over. The couples reformed and fol- 
lowed the bridal pair down the steps, Aunt 
Sukey hardly containing her joy, but Ben and 
Eliza somehow subdued. As their feet touched 
the ground of the lawn, the owl hooted again, 
and ever and anon, his voice was heard as the 
procession wound its stately way to the place of 
the next festivities. 

In silence, the family from the big house fol- 
lowed. The two men walked together. As they 

234 


The Easter Wedding 


reached the door of the decorated barn, James 
paused and took his brother’s hand. 

“Till death do them part,” he cried. ‘‘My 
God! will it be death or the block!” Then with 
hard, forced smiles, they turned into the room 
to open the dance and the fiddles struck up a 
merry tune. 


235 


THE FINDING OF MARTHA. 


Whether one believes in predestination or not, 
the intenseness with which Gideon Stone went 
toward his destiny would have been a veritable 
and material proof of foreordination. Even 
before the old mistress had followed her husband 
to the silent land and the marriage of Miss Ellen 
had entirely broken up the home, he had begun 
to exhort among the people who were forming 
a free community about the old slave plantation. 
The embargo against negro education having 
been removed, he learned to read by hook and 
by crook, and night after night in his lonely room 
he sat poring over the few books that he could 
lay his hands upon. 

Aside from the semi-pastoral duties which he 
had laid upon himself, his life was a lonely one. 
For Gideon was no less true to his love than he 
had been to his honor. Since Martha had left 
him, five years before, no other woman had been 
enshrined in his heart, and the longing was ever 
in him to go forth and search for her. But his 
duties and his poverty still held him bound, and 
so the years glided away. Gideon’s powers, how- 

236 


The Finding of Martha 


ever, were not rusting from disuse. He was 
gaining experience and increasing his knowledge. 

It was now that the wave of enthusiasm for 
the education of the blacks swept most vigorously 
over the South, and, catching him, carried him 
into the harbor of one of the new Southern 
schools. The chief business of these institutions 
then was the turning out of teachers and preach- 
ers. During the months of his vacations Gideon 
followed the former calling as a means of prepa- 
ration for the latter. So he was imparting to 
others the Rule of Three very soon after he had 
learned it himself. He brought to both these 
new labors of his the same earnestness and seri- 
ousness that had characterized his life on the 
plantation. And in due course the little school 
sent him forth proudly as one of her brightest 
and best. 

The course being finished, Gideon’s first im- 
pulse was to go farther southward, where his 
duty toward his fellows was plain. But his plan 
watred with the longing that had been in his 
heart ever since he had seen the blue lines swing 
over the hills and away, and he knew that with 
them Martha was making her way northward. 
He had never heard of her since; but he did not 

237 


In Old Plantation Days 


blame her. She could not write herself, few 
of her associates could, and in the turmoil of the 
times it would not be easy to get a letter written, 
or, being written, get it to him. Not for one 
moment did he lose faith in her. He believed 
that somewhere she was waiting for him,—im- 
patiently, perhaps, but still with trust. He would 
go to her. From that moment his search should 
begin. Washington was the Mecca for his peo- 
ple then. Perhaps among those who had flocked 
from the South to the nation’s capital he might 
find the object of his search. It was worth the 
trying, so thither he turned his steps. 

At that time, when the first desire for a min- 
ister with at least a little more knowledge than 
they themselves possessed was coming to the 
Negroes, it was not a difficult matter for Gideon 
to finda church. He was called to a small chapel 
very shortly after he arrived in Washington, and 
after pastoring that for a few months found him- 
self over the larger congregation of Shiloh 
Church, which was the mother of his former 
charge. 

He had an enthusiasm for his work that gave 
him influence over the people and made him 
popular both as a preacher and a pastor, while 

238 


The Finding of Martha 


the voice that in the days gone by had sung 
“Gideon’s Band” was mighty in its aid to the 
volunteer choir. His fame grew week by week, 
and he drew around him a larger and better 
crowd of his own people. But in it all, his oc- 
cupations and his successes, he did not forget why 
he had come to the city. His eye was ever out 
for a glimpse of a familiar face. With no 
thought of self-aggrandizement, he yet did all in 
his power to spread his name abroad, for, 
thought he, “If Martha hears of me, she will 
come to me.” He did not trust to this method 
alone, however, but went forth at all times upon 
his search. 

“Hit do ’pear to me moughty funny,” said one 
of his congregation to another one day, “‘dat a 
preachah o’ Brothah Stone’s ability do hang er- 
roun’ de deepo so.” 

‘Hang erroun’ de deepo! What you talkin’ 
*bout, Sis Mandy ?” 

“Dat des whut I say. Dat man kin sholy 
allus be foun’ at one deepo er anothah, Sis Lizy.”’ 

“T don’t know how dat come, case he sholy do 
mek his pasto’ial wisits.”’ 

“T ain’t ’sputin’ de wisits, ner I ain’t a-blamin’ 
de man, case I got all kin’ o’ faif in Brothah 

239 


In Old Plantation Days 


Gidjon Stone, but I do say, an’ dey’s othahs dat 
kin tell you de same, dat w’en he ain’t a-wisitin’ 
de sick er a-preachin’, he stan’ erroun’ watchin’ 
de steam-cyahs, an’ dey say his eyes des glisten 
w’enevah a train comes in.” 

‘“‘Ffuh, uh, honey, dey’s somep’n’ behime dat.” 

“*Tain’t fu’ me to say. Cose I knows all 
edjicated people has dey cuhiousnesses, but dis is 
moughty cuhious.”’ 

It was indeed true, as Sister Mandy Belknap 
had said, that Gideon was often to be found at 
one or the other of the railway stations, where 
he watched feverishly the incoming and outgoing 
trains. Maybe Martha would be on one of 
them. She might be coming in or going out any 
day, and so he was miserable whenever he missed 
a day at his post. ‘The station officials looked 
in wonder at the slim Negro in clerical dress 
who came day by day to watch with intense face 
the monotonous bustle of arrival and departure. 
Whoever he is, they thought, he has been ex- 
pecting someone for a long time. 

The trains went and the trains came, and yet 
Martha did not appear, and the eager look in 
Gideon’s face grew stronger. The intent gaze 
with which he regarded the world without grew 


240 


The Finding of Martha 


keener and more expectant. It was as if all the 
yearning that his soul had experienced in all the 
years had come out into his face and begged pity 
of the world. And yet there was none of this 
plea for pity in Gideon’s attitude. On the con- 
trary, he went his own way, and a brave, manly 
way it was, that asked less of the world than it 
gave. The very disappointment which he re- 
strained made him more helpful to the generally 
disappointed and despised people to whom he 
ministered. When his heart ached within him, 
he took no time for repining, but measuring their 
pain by his own, set out to find some remedy 
for their suffering. Their griefs were mirrored 
in his own sorrow, and every wail of theirs was 
but the echo of his own heart’s cry. He drew 
people to him by the force of his sympathetic 
understanding of their woes, and even those who 
came for his help and counsel went away asking 
how so young a man could feel and know so 
much. 

Meanwhile in Gideon’s congregation a feeling 
of unrest seemed taking possession of the sisters. 
In the privacy of their families they spoke of the 
matter which troubled them to indifferent hus- 
bands, who guffawed and went their several ways 


241 


In Old Plantation Days 


as if a momentous question were not taxing their 
wives’ minds. But the women would not be put 
off. When they found that the men, with the 
indifference of the sex, refused to be interested, 
they talked among themselves, and they con- 
cluded without a dissenting voice that there was 
something peculiar, something strange and un- 
canny, about the celibacy of the Reverend Gideon 
Stone. He was abnormal. He was the shining 
exception in a much-marrying calling. 

A number of them were gathered at Sister 
Mandy Belknap’s home one Friday evening, 
when the conversation turned to the preacher’s 
unaccountable course. 

“Hit seem mo’ unnatchul lak, case preachahs 
is mos’ly de marryinest kin’ o’ men,” said Sister 
Lizy Doke. 

‘To be sho’; dat what mek his diffuntness look 
so cuhious.” 

“Well, now, look-a-hyeah, sistahs,” spoke up 
a widow lady who was now enjoying a brief 
interval of single-blessedness after a stormy part- 
ing with her fourth spouse; “don’t you reckon 
dat man got a wife som’ers? You know men 
will do dat thing. I ’membah my third husban’. 

242 


The Finding of Martha 


W’en I ma’ied him he had a wife in Tennessee, 
and anothah one in Fuginny. I know men.” 

“Brothah Gidjon ain’t nevah been ma’ied,” 
said Sister Mandy shortly. 

““Huccome you so sho’ ?” 

‘He ain’t got de look; dat’s huccome me so 
sho’ ?” 

‘Huh, uh, honey, dey ain’t no tellin’ whut kin’ 
o’ look a man kin put on. I know men, I tell 
you.” 

“Brothah Gidjon ain’t ma’ied,” reiterated the 
hostess; ‘‘fust an’ fo’mos’, dey ain’t no foolin’ 
de pusson on de ma’ied look, an’ he ain’t got it. 
Den he ain’t puttin’ on no looks, case Brothah 
Gidjon is diffunt fom othah men mo’ ways den 
one. I knows dat ef I is only got my fust hus- 
ban’ an’ is still livin’ wid him.” 

The widow lady instantly subsided. 

“You don’ reckon Brothah Gidjon’s been tek- 
in’ up any dese hyeah Cath’lic notions, does 
you?’’ ventured another speaker. “You know 
dem Cath’lic pries’es don’ nevah ma’y.” 

‘““Hlow’s he gwine to have any Cath’lic notions, 
w’en he bred an’ born an’ raised in de Baptis’ 
faire? 

243 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Dey ain’t no tellin’. Dey ain’t no tellin’. 
W’en colo’ed folks git to gwine to colleges, you 
nevah know what dey gwine lu’n. My mammy’s 
sistah was sol’ inter Ma’ylan’, an’, bless yo’ soul, 
she’s a Cath’lic to dis day.” 

“Well, I don’ know nuffin’ ’bout dat, but hit 
ain’t no Cath’lic notions, I tell you. Brothah 
Gidjon Stone’s too solid fu’ dat. Dey’s some’p’n 
else behime it.” 

The interest and curiosity of the women, now 
that they were fired, did not stop at these private 
discussions among themselves. They went even 
farther and broached the matter to the minister. 

They suggested jocosely, but with a deep vein 
of earnestness underlying the statement, that they 
were looking for a wife for him. But they could 
elicit from him no response save ‘‘There’s time 
enough; oh, there’s time enough.” 

Gideon said this with an appearance of cheer- 
fulness, but in his heart he did not believe it. He 
did not think that there was time. His body, 
his mind, his soul all yearned hotly for the com- 
panionship of the woman he loved. There are 
some men born to be husbands, just as there are 
some men born to be poets, painters, or musicians 
—men who, living alone, cannot know life. 


244 


The Finding of Martha 


Gideon was one of these. Every instinct of his 
being drove him towards domestic life with un- 
flagging insistency. But it was Martha whom 
he wanted. Martha whom he loved and with 
‘whom he had plighted his troth. What to him 
were the glances of other women? What the 
seduction in their eyes, and the unveiled invita- 
tion in their smiles? There was one woman in 
the world to him, and she loomed so large to his 
sight that he could see no other. How he waited; 
how he longed; how he prayed! And the days 
passed, the trains came and went, and still no 
word, no sight of Martha. 

Strangers came to his church, and visitors 
from other cities came to him, and still nothing 
of her for whom he waited to make his life 
complete. Then one day in the silence of his own 
sorrow he fell upon his knees, crying, ‘‘My God, 
my God, why hast thou forsaken me?” And 
from then hope fled from him. She was dead. 
She must be, or she would have come to him. 
He had waited long, oh, so long, and now it was 
all over. For the rest of his days he must walk 
the way of his life alone or—could he, could he 
turn his eyes upon another woman? No, no, his 
heart cried out to him, and he felt in that moment 

245 


In Old Plantation Days 


as a man standing beside his wife’s bier would 
feel should the thought of another obtrude it- 
self. 

He went to the trains no more. He searched 
no more; hope was dead; but the one object that 
had blinded him, that had given him single sight, 
being removed, he began to look around him and 
to see—at first it seemed almost a revelation— 
other women. Now he saw too their glances 
and their smiles. He heard the tender notes in 
their voices as they spoke to him, for all other 
sounds were no longer drowned by Martha’s 
calling to him from the Unknown. When first 
he found himself giving fuller range to his 
narrow vision, he was startled, then apologetic, 
then defiant. The man in him triumphed. 
Martha was dead. He was alone. Must he 
always be? Was life, after all, to be but this 
bitter husk to him when he had but to reach 
forth his hand to find the kernel of it? 

He had never even been troubled with such 
speculations before, but now he awoke to the 
fact that he was not yet old and that the long 
stretch of life before him looked dreary enough 
if he must tread it by himself. 

246 


The Finding of Martha 


In this crisis the tempter, who is always an 
opportunist, came to Gideon. Sister Mandy 
Belknap had always manifested a great deal of 
interest in the preacher’s welfare, a surprising 
amount for a woman who had no daughter. 
However, she had a niece. Now she came to 
the pastor with a grave face. 

“Brothah Stone,” she said, “I got some talk 
fu’ you.” 

“Yes, Sister Belknap?” said Gideon, settling 
himself complacently, with the expectation of 
hearing some tale of domestic woe or some his- 
tory of spiritual doubt, for among his congrega- 
tion he was often the arbiter in such affairs. 

‘Now, I’s ol’ enough fu’ yo’ mothah,”’ Sister 
Mandy went on, and at the words the minister 
became suddenly alert, for from her introduction 
her visit seemed to be admonitory, rather than 
appealing. Evidently he was not to give advice, 
but to be advised. He was not to be the advo- 
cate, but the defendant; not the judge, but the 
culprit. 

“T’s seed mo’ of life den you has, Brothah 
Gidjon, ef I do say hit myse’f.” 

“Not a doubt of it, my sister.” 

247 


In Old Plantation Days 


‘An’ I knows mo’ ’bout men an’ women den 
you does. Co’se you know mo’ ’bout Scripter 
den I does, dough I ricollect dat de Lawd said 
dat it ain’t good fu’ man to be alone.” 

Gideon started. It was as if the old woman 
had by some occult power divined the trend of 
his thoughts and come to take part in the direc- 
tion of them. 

“The Bible surely says that, Sister Belknap,” 
he said when the first surprise was over. 

‘Tt do, an’ I want to know ef you ain’t a-flyin’ 
in de face o’ Providence by doin’ what hit say 
ain’t good fu’ a man?” 

Gideon was a little bit puzzled, but in answer 
he began, ‘““There are circumstances : 

“Dat’s des’ hit,’’ said Sister Mandy impres- 
sively; “‘sarcumstances, sarcumstances, an’ evah 
man dat wants to disobey de wo’d t’inks he’s got 


de sarcumstances. Uh! I tell you de ol’ boy is 
a moughty clevah han’ at mekin’ excuses fu’ 
MS. 

‘T don’t reckon, sister, that we’ve got the same 
point of view,” said Gideon nervously. 

“"Tain’t my p’int of view, ’tain’t mine; hit’s 
de Lawd A’mighty’s. You young, Brothah 
Gidjon, you young, an’ you don’ see lak I does, 

248 


The Finding of Martha 


but lemme tell you, hit ain’t right fu’ no man 
whut ain’t ma’ied to be a-pasto’n no sich a flock. 
I don’ want to meddle into yo’ business, but all I 
got to say is, you bettah look erroun’ you an’ 
choose a wife fu’ to be yo’ he’pmeet. ’Scuse me 
fu’ speakin’ to you, Brothah. Go ’roun’ an’ see 
my niece. She kin p’int out some moughty nice 
women.” . 

“It was mighty good of you to speak, and I 
am glad that you came tome. I will think over 
what you have said.” 

“Tt is not good for man to be alone,’ ”’ 
mused Gideon when his visitor was gone. Was 
not this just the word of help and encouragement 
that he had wanted—indeed, the one that he had 
been waiting for? He had been faithful, he 
told himself. He had looked and he had waited. 
Martha had not come, and was it not true that 
“it is not good for man to be alone?’ He went 
to bed that night with the sentence ringing in 
his head. 

Mandy Belknap had done her work well, for 
on the following Sunday the preacher smiled on 
her niece, Caroline Martin, and on the Sunday 
after that he walked home to dinner with her. 

249 


In Old Plantation Days 


What the gossips said about it at the time, 
how they gazed and chattered, and with what 
a feeling of self-satisfaction Sister Mandy went 
her way, are details that do not belong to this 
story. However, one cannot pass over Gideon’s 
attitude in this new matter. It is true that he 
found himself liking Caroline better and better 
the more frequently he saw her. ‘The girl’s 
pretty ways pleased him. She was a member of 
his choir, and he thought often how like 
Martha’s her voice was. Indeed, he was’ wont 
to compare her with this early love of his, and 
it did not occur to him that he cared for her not 
so much for what she was herself, but for the 
few points in which she resembled his lost sweet- 
heart. He was not wooing (if wooing his atten- 
tions could be called) Caroline Martin as Caro- 
line Martin, but only as a proxy for his own 
unforgotten Martha, for even now, in the face 
of hopelessness, his love and faith were stronger 
than he. 

Caroline Martin was the most envied girl in 
Shiloh Church, for, indeed, hers was no slight 
distinction, to be singled out by the minister for 
his special attention after so long a period of 
indifference. But envy and gossip passed her 


250 


The Finding of Martha 


by as the idle wind, for the very honor which 
had been accorded her placed her above the 
reach of petty jealousies. Her triumph, how- 
ever, was to be brief. 

It was on a rainy Sunday night in October, a 
late Washington October, which has in it all 
the possibilities of nastiness given to weather. 
Shiloh Chapel was well filled despite the storm 
without. Gideon was holding forth in his ac- 
customed way, vigorously, eloquently, and con- 
vincingly. His congregation was warming up 
to a keen appreciation of his sermon, when sud- 
denly the door opened, and a drabbled, forlorn- 
looking woman entered and sank into a back 
seat. One glance at her, and the words died on 
Gideon’s lips. He paused for a moment and 
swayed upon his feet while his heart beat a wild 
tattoo. 

It was Martha, his Martha, but, oh, how 
sadly changed! His heart fell a-bleeding for her 
as he saw the once proud woman sitting there 
crouched in her seat among the well-dressed 
people like the humblest of creatures. He wanted 
to stop right there in the midst of his sermon 
and go rushing to her, to take her in his arms 


251 


In Old Plantation Days 


and tell her that if the world had dealt hard with 
her, he at least was true. 

It was a long pause he made, and the con- 
gregation was looking at him in surprise. Then 
he recovered himself, and went on with his ex- 
hortation, hastily, feverishly. He could scarcely 
wait to be done. 

The last words of the benediction fell from 
his lips and he hastened down the aisle, elbowing 
his way through the detaining crowd, his face 
set toward one point. Someone spoke to him 
as he passed, but he did not hear; a hand was 
stretched out to him, but he did not see it. There 
was but one thought in his mind. 

He reached the seat in the corner of which 
Martha had crouched. She was gone. He stood 
for a moment dazed, and then dashed out into 
the rain and darkness. Nothing was to be seen 
of her, and hatless he ran on down the street, 
hoping to strike the direction in which she had 
started and so overtake her. But she had evi- 
dently gone directly across the street or turned 
another way. Sad and dejected and wondering 
somewhat, he retraced his steps to the church. 

It was Martha; there could be no doubt of 
that. But why such an act from her? It seemed 


252 


The Finding of Martha 


as if she had purposely avoided him. What had 
he done to her that she should treat him thus? 
She must have some reason. It was not like 
Martha. Yes, there was some good reason, he 
knew. Faith came back to him then. He had 
seen her. She was living and he would see her 
again. His heart lightened and _ bounded. 
Martha was found. 

Sister Belknap was waiting for him when he 
got back to the church door, and beside her the 
comely Caroline. 

“Wy, Brothah Gidjon,” said the elder woman, 
“‘what’s de mattah wid you to-night? You des 
shot outen de do’ lak a streak o’ lightnin’, an’ 
baih-headed, ez I live! [lay you’ll tek yo’ death 
o’ col’ dis hyeah night.” 

“T saw an old friend of mine from the South 
in church and I wanted to catch her before she 
got away, but she was gone.” 

There was something in the minister’s voice, 
a tone or an inflection, that disturbed Sister 
Belknap’s complacency, and with a sharp, “Come 
on, Ca’line,” she bade him good-night and went 
her way. He saw them go off together without 
a pang. As he got his hat and started home, his 

253 


In Old Plantation Days 


only thought was of Martha and how she would 
come again, and he was happy. 

The next Sunday he watched every new-comer 
to the church with eager attention, and so at 
night; but Martha was not among them. Sun- 
day after Sunday told the same story, and again 
Gideon’s heart failed him. Maybe Martha did 
not want to see him. Maybe she was married, 
and his heart grew cold at that. 

For over a month, however, his vigilance did 
not relax, and finally his faith was rewarded. In 
the midst of his sermon he saw Martha glide in 
and slip into a seat. He ended quickly, and 
leaving the benediction to be pronounced by a 
“local preacher,” he hurried down the aisle and 
was at her side just as she reached the door ahead 
of everyone. 

“Martha, Martha, thank the Lord!” he cried, 
taking her hand. 

“Oh Gid—I mean Brothah—er—Reverent 
—I must go ’long.”” The woman was painfully 
embarrassed. 

“T am going with you,” he said firmly, still 
holding her hand as he led her protesting from 
the church. 

254 


The Finding of Martha 


‘Oh, you mustn’t go with me,” she cried, 
shrinking from him. 

“Why, Martha, what have I done to you? 
I’ve been waiting for you so long.” 

She had begun to sob now, and Gideon, with- 
out pausing to think whether she were married 
or not, put his arm tenderly about her. ‘Tell 
me what it is, Martha? What has kept you 
from me so long?” 

“T ain’t no fittin’ pusson fu’ you now, Gidjon.” 

‘What is it? You’re not—are you married ?” 

SOINone 

“Have you kept the light ?” 

“Yes, thank de Lawd, even wid all my low- 
downness, I’s kept de light in my soul.” 

“Then that’s all, Martha?” 

“No, it ain’t—it ain’t. I wouldn’t stay wid 
you w’en you axed me, an’ I came up hyeah an’ 
got po’er an’ po’er, an’ dey’s been times w’en I 
ain’t had nothin’ ha’dly to go on; but I wouldn’t 
sen’ you no wo’d, case I was proud an’ I was 
ashamed case I run off to fin’ so much an’ only 
foun’ dis. Den I hyeahed dat you was edjicated 
an’ comin’ hyeah to preach. Dat made you 
furder away f’om me, an’ I knowed you wasn’ 
fu’ me no mo’. It lak to killed me, but I stuck 

255 


In Old Plantation Days 


it out. Many an’ many’s de time I seen you an’ 
could ’a’ called you, but I thought you’d be 
ashamed o’ me.” 

“Martha !”” 

‘‘T wouldn’ ’a’ come to yo’ chu’ch, but I wanted 
to hyeah yo’ voice ag’in des once. Den I wouldn’ 
’a’ come back no mo’, case I thought you recker- 
nized me. But I had to—I had to. I was 
hongry to hyeah you speak. But go back now, 
Gidjon, I’m near home, an’ I can’t tek you to 
dat po’ place.” 

But Gideon marched right on. A light was in 
his face and a springiness in his step that had 
been absent for many a day. She halted before 
a poor little house, two rooms at the most, the 
front one topped with a stove-pipe which did 
duty as a chimney. 

‘““yeah’s whaih I live,” she said shame- 
facedly; ‘‘you would come.” 

They went in. The little room, ill furnished, 
was clean and neat, and the threadbare carpet 
was scrupulously swept. 

Gideon had been too happy to speak, but now 
he broke silence. ‘This is just about the size of 
the cabin we'd have had if the war hadn’t come 
on. Can you get ready by to-morrow ?” 

256 


The Finding of Martha 


“No, no, I ain’t fu’ you, Gidjon. I ain’t got 
nothin’. I don’t know nothin’ but ha’d work. 
What would I look lak among yo’ fine folks?” 

‘You'd look like my Martha, and that’s what 
you're going to do.” 

Her eyes began to shine. ‘“‘Gidjon, you don’t 
mean it! I thought when colo’ed folks got 
edjicated dey fu’got dey mammys an’ dey pap- 
pys an’ dey ol’ frien’s what can’t talk straight.” 

“Martha,” said Gideon, ‘did you ever hear 
‘Nearer, my God, to Thee’ played on a banjo?” 

DO” 

“Well, you know the instrument isn’t much, 
but it’s the same sweet old tune. That’s the 
way it is when old friends tell me their love and 
friendship brokenly. Can’t you see?” 


They talked long that night, and Gideon 
brought Martha to his way of thinking, though 
she held out for less haste. She exacted a week. 

On the following Sunday the Reverend 
Gideon Stone preached as his congregation had 
never heard him preach before, and after the 
service, being asked to remain, they were treated 
to a surprise that did their hearts good. A 
brother pastor, mysteriously present, told their 

257 


In Old Plantation Days 


story and performed the ceremony between 
Gideon and Martha. 

So many of them were just out of slavery. So 
many of them knew what separation and fruit- 
less hope of re-meeting were, that it was an 
event to strike home to their hearts. Some 
wept, some rejoiced, and all gathered around the 
pastor and his wife to grasp their hands. 

And then Martha was back on the old planta- 
tion again and her love and Gideon’s was young, 
and she never knew why she did it, but suddenly 
her voice, the voice that Gideon had loved, broke 
into one of the old plantation hymns. He joined 
her. Members from the old South threw back 
their heads, and, seeing the yellow fields, the 
white cabins, the great house, in the light of 
other days, fell into the chorus that shook the 
church, and people passing paused to listen, say- 
ing,— 

“There’s a great time at Shiloh to-day.” 

And there was. 


258 


THE DEFECTION OF MARIA ANN 
GIBBS. 


There had been a wonderful season of grace 
at Bethel Chapel since the advent of the new 
minister, and the number of converts who had 
entered the fold put the record of other years 
and other pastors to shame. Seats that had been 
empty were filled; collections that had been 
meagre were now ample. The church had been 
improved; a coat of paint had been put on the 
outside, and the interior had been adorned by 
a strip of carpet down the two aisles and pink 
calcimining on the walls. The Rev. Eleazar 
Jackson had proved a most successful shepherd. 
The fact was shown by the rotundity of his form, 
which bespoke good meals, and the newness of 
his clothes, which argued generous contribu- 
tions. 

He was not only a very eloquent man, but had 
social attainments of a high order. He was 
immensely popular with the sisters, and was on 
such good terms with the brothers that they for- 
got to be jealous of him. When he happened 
around about an hour before dinner-time, and 

259 


In Old Plantation Days 


some solicitous sister killed for him the fattening 
fowl which her husband had been watching with 
eager eyes, Mr. Jackson averted any storm which 
might have followed by such a genial presence 
and such a raciness of narration at the table that 
the head of the house forgot his anger and 
pressed the preacher to have some more of the 
chicken. 

Notwithstanding this equality of regard on 
the part of both brothers and sisters, it was yet 
noticeable that the larger number of the converts 
were drawn from the tenderer sex—but human 
nature is human nature, women are very much 
women, and the preacher was a bachelor. 

Among these gentle converts none was more 
zealous, more ardent or more constant than 
Maria Ann Gibbs. She and her bosom friend, 
Lucindy Woodyard, had ‘‘come th’oo” on the 
same night, and it was a wonderful event. They 
shouted all over Bethel Chapel. When one went 
up one aisle the other came down the other. 
When one cried “Hallelujah!” the other shouted 
“Glory! When one skipped the other jumped, 
and finally they met in front of the altar, and 
binding each other in a joyous embrace, they 
swayed back and forth to the rhythm of the 


260 


The Defection of Maria Ann Gibbs 


hymn that was rising even above their own re- 
joicings, and which asserted that, 


‘‘Jedgement Day is a-rollin’ round’, 
Er how I long to be there!” 


It was a wonderfully affecting sight, and it 
was not long before the whole church was in a 
tumult of rejoicings. These two damsels were 
very popular among their people, and every 
young man who had looked with longing eyes 
at Lucindy, or sighed for the brown hand of 
Maria Ann, joined in the shouting, if he was one 
of the “‘saved,” or, if he was not, hastened up to 
fall prostrate at the mourners’ bench. Thus 
were the Rev. Eleazar Jackson’s meetings a 
great success, and his name became great in the 
land. 

From the moment of their conversion Lucindy 
and Maria Ann went hand in hand into the good 
work for the benefit of the church, and they 
were spoken of as especially active young mem- 
bers. There was not a sociable to be given, nor 
a donation party to be planned, nor a special 
rally to be effected, but that these two consulted 
each other and carried the affair to a successful 
issue. The Rev. Eleazar often called attention 


261 


In Old Plantation Days 


to them in his exhortations from the pulpit, spoke 
of the beautiful harmony between them, and 
pointed it out as an example to the rest of his 
flock. He had a happy turn for phrase-making, 
which he exercised when he called the two “twin 
sisters in the great new birth o’ grace.” 

For a year the church grew and waxed strong, 
and the minister’s power continued, and peace 
reigned. Then as the rain clouds creep slowly 
over the mountain-top and bring the storm thun- 
dering down into the valley, so ominous signs 
began to appear upon the horizon of Bethel’s 
religious and social life. At first these warning 
clouds were scarcely perceptible; in fact, there 
were those unbelievers who said that there would 
be no storm; but the mutterings grew louder. 

The first sign of danger was apparent in the 
growing coolness between Lucindy and Maria 
Ann. They were not openly or aggressively 
enemies, but from being on that high spiritual 
plane, where the outward signs of fellowship 
were not needed, and on which they called each 
other by their first names, they had come down 
to a level which required, to indicate their rela- 
tions one to the other, the interchange of ‘“‘Sis- 


ter Gibbs” and “Sister Woodyard.” ‘There had 


262 


The Defection of Maria Ann Gibbs 


been a time when they had treated each other 
with loving and familiar discourtesy, but now 
they were scrupulously polite. If one broke in 
upon the other’s remarks in church council, it 
was with an “‘Excuse me, Sis’ Gibbs,”’ or “I beg 
yo’ pa’don, Sis’ Woodyard,” and each seemed 
feverishly anxious to sacrifice herself to make 
way for the other. 

Then they came to work no more together. 
The separation was effected without the least 
show of anger. They simply drifted apart, and 
Lucindy found herself at the head of one faction 
and Maria Ann in the lead of another. Here 
for a time a good-natured rivalry was kept up, 
much to the increase of Bethel’s finances and 
its minister’s satisfaction. But an uncertain and 
less genial note began to creep into these con- 
tests as the Rev. Eleazar Jackson continued to 
smile upon both the ardent sisters. 

The pastor at Bethel had made such a glow- 
ing record as a financier that the Bishop had 
expressed his satisfaction by a special letter, and 
requested that at the June rally he make an 
extra effort to raise funds for the missionary 
cause. Elated at this mark of distinction, and 
with visions of a possible Presiding Eldership 

263 


In Old Plantation Days 


in his mind, Mr. Jackson sought out his two 
most attractive parishioners and laid his case 
before them. It was in the chapel, immediately 
after the morning service, that he got them to- 
gether. 

‘““You see, sisters,’’ he said, ‘‘Bethel have made 
a record which she have to sustain. She have 
de reputation o’ bein’ one o’ the most lib’l 
chu’ches in de Confer’nce. Now we don’t want 
to disa’point the Bishop when he picks us out to 
help him in such a good cause. O’ co’se I 
knowed who I could depend on, an’ so I come 
right to you sisters to see if you couldn’t plan 
out some’p’n that would make a real big splurge 
at de June rally.” 

He paused and waited for the sisters to reply. 
They were both silent. This made him uneasy, 
and he said, ‘‘What you think, Sister Gibbs ?” 

“Oh,” said Maria Ann, “I'm waitin’ to hyeah 
f'om Sis’ Woodyard.” 

“Oh, no,” said Sister Woodyard politely, 
‘‘don’ wait on me, Sis’ Gibbs. ’Spress yo’se’f, 
*spress yo’se’f.” 

But Maria Ann still demurred. “I couldn’t 
think o’ puttin’ my po’ opinions up ’fo’ Sis Wood- 
yard,” she said. “I’d a good deal ruther wait 

264 


The Defection of Maria Ann Gibbs 


to hyeah f’om my elders.” She laid especial 
stress on the last word. 

Lucindy smiled a smile so gentle that it was 
ominous. 

“T ain’t holdin’ back ’ecause I cain’t think o’ 
nothin’,” she said, ‘“‘but jes’ ’ecause I ain’t been 
used to puttin’ myse’f forrard, an’ I don’t like to 
begin it so late.” And she smiled again. 

The minister began to feel uneasy. Figura- 
tively speaking, both of the sisters seemed to be 
sparring for wind, and he thought it better to 
call the council to a close and see each one 
separately. 

“Well,” he said hurriedly, ‘I know you sisters 
will come to some conclusion, an’ jes’ ’po’t to me 
on next Wednesday night, an’ I will pass a kind 
o’ ’view over yo’ plans, an’ offer a su’jestion, 
mebbe. We want to do some’p’n that will bring 
out de people an’ mek ’em give gen’ously of their 
means for de benefit o’ de heathen.” 

The two sisters bowed very politely to each 
other, shook the minister’s hand, and went their 
different ways. 

It must have been Satan himself who effected 
the result of having both women hit upon the 
same plan of action. Maria Ann was pleased 

265 


In Old Plantation Days 


at her idea, and hastened to church on Wednes- 
day evening to report it to the pastor, only to 
find that Lucindy Woodyard had been before 
her with the same plan. 

“TI mus’ congratulate you, sisters,” said the 
Rev. Eleazar, “‘bofe upon yo’ diligence an’ yo’ 
fo’thought. It must ’a’ been P’ovidence that 
directed bofe yo’ min’s in de same channel.” 

Both the sisters were aghast. They had both 
suggested dividing the church into soliciting 
parties and giving a prize to the one collecting 
the highest amount of money. Perhaps the 
Devil was not so much concerned in making their 
minds revert to this as it appeared, as it is a very 
common device for raising money among negro 
churches. However, both the women were dis- 
appointed. 

“T’'d jes’ leave draw out an’ let Sis’ Gibbs go 
on an’ manage dis affair,” said Lucindy. 

“T’d ruther be excused,” said Maria Ann, ‘an’ 
leave it in Sis’ Woodyard’s han’s.” 

But the minister was wily enough to pour oil 
on the troubled waters, and at the same time to 
suggest a solution of the problem that would 
enlist the sympathies and ambition of both the 
women. 

266 


The Defection of Maria Ann Gibbs 


“Now I su’jest,” he said, “that bofe you sis- 
ters remains in dis contest, an’ then, instid 0’ 
throwin’ the competition open, you sisters by 
yo’se’ves each be de head o’ a pa’ty that shall 
bring de money to ycu, an’ the one of you that 
gets the most f’om her pa’ty shall have de prize.” 

Lucindy’s eyes glittered, and Maria Ann’s 
flashed, as they agreed to the contest with joyful 
hearts. Here should be a trial of both strength 
and prowess, and it would be shown who was 
worthy to walk the ways of life side by side with 
the Rev. Eleazar Jackson. 

Joyfully they went to their tasks. Their en- 
thusiasm inspired their followers with partisan 
energy. Side bantered side, and party taunted 
party, but the leaders kept up a magnificent calm. 
It was not they alone who knew that there was 
more at stake than the prize that was offered, 
that they had more in view than the good of the 
heathen souls. There were other eyes that saw 
and minds that understood besides those of 
Lucindy, Maria Ann and the preacher. 

Pokey Williams, who was very warm in the 
Gibbs faction, called from the fence to her neigh- 
bor, Hannah Lewis, who was equally ardent on 

267 


In Old Plantation Days 


the other side: ‘How yo’ collection come on, 
Sis’ Lewis ?” 

“Oh, middlin’, middlin’; de w’ite folks I wok 
fu’ done p’omise me some’p’n, my grocery man 
he gwine give me some’p’n, an’ I got fo’ dollahs 
in little bits a’ready.” 

“Oomph,” said Pokey, “‘you jes’ boun’ an’ 
*termine to ma’y Lucindy Woodyard to de 
preachah!” 

“G’way fom hyeah, Pokey, you is de beat- 
enes’! How you gittin’ on?” 

“Heish, gal, my w’ite folks done gi’ me ten 
dollahs a’ready, an’ I’m jes’ tacklin’ evahbody I 
know.” 

“Ten dollahs! W’y, dey ain’ no way fu’ de 
preachah to git erway f’om Maria Ann Gibbs ef 
you keep on!” 

The two waved their hands at each other and 
broke into a rollicking laugh. 

The rally in June was the greatest the annals 
of Bethel Chapel had ever recorded. The prize 
decided upon was a gold watch, and on the 
evening that the report and decision were to be 
made, a hall had to be procured, for the chapel 
would not hold the crowd. A brief concert 
was given first to get the people in a good humor, 

268 


The Defection of Maria Ann Gibbs 


and to whet their anxiety, and though the per- 
formers were well received, little attention was 
paid to them, for every one was on the qui vive 
for the greater drama of the evening. The min- 
ister was in his glory. 

When the concert was over, he welcomed 
Lucindy and Maria Ann to the stage, where they 
sat, one on either side of him. ‘The reports 
began. First one from Lucindy’s side, then one 
from Maria Ann’s, and so alternately through. 
It was very close! ‘The people were leaning for- 
ward, eager and anxious for the issue. The re- 
ports came thick and fast, and the excitement 
grew as the sums increased. The climax was to 
be the reports of the two leaders themselves, and 
here Lucindy had shown her shrewdness. Maria 
Ann’s side had begun to report first, and so their 
leader was compelled to state her amount first. 
There was a certain little reserve fund in the 
pocket of her opponent with which young Mrs. 
Worthington was somewhat acquainted, and it 
was to be used in case Maria Ann should excel 
her. Maria Ann made her report, reading from 
her book: 

““*Codin’ to de returns made by my pa’ty, 
which you hev all hyeahed, they hev collected 

269 


In Old Plantation Days 


one hun’erd an’ eight dollahs; addin’ to that 
what I hev collected by myse’f, fifty-two dollahs, 
I returns to de chu’ch one hun’erd an’ sixty dol- 
lahs.”’ 

Down in her lap Lucindy did some quick, sur- 
reptitious writing. Then she stood up. 

‘““’Co’din’ to de returns which my pa’ty hev 
made, an’ which you hev all hyeahed, they hev 
collected one hun’erd an’ two dollahs, an’ I, by 
my own individual effort’—she laid wonderful 
emphasis upon the last two words, “‘bring in sixty 
dollahs, mekin’ the total one hun’erd and sixty- 
two dollahs, which I submit to de chu’ch.”’ 

There was a burst of applause from Lucindy’s 
partisans, but Maria Ann was on her feet: 

“T forgot,” she said, “‘de last donation I re- 
ceived. Mrs. Jedge Haines was kin’ enough to 
give me a check fu’ ten dollahs, which I didn’t 
add in at fust, an’ it brings my collection up to 
one hun’erd an’ seventy dollahs.” 

The volume of applause increased at Maria 
Ann’s statement, but it wavered into silence as 
Lucindy arose. She smiled down upon Maria 
Ann. 

“I’m mighty thankful to de sister,” she said, 
“fw mindin’ me o’ some’p’n I mos’ nigh fu’got. 


270 


The Defection of Maria Ann Gibbs 


Mis’ Cal’ine Worthington desired to put her 
name down on my book fu’ twenty dollahs, 
which brings my collection to one hun’erd an’ 
eighty dollahs.”’ 

Mrs. Worthington looked across at Mrs. 
Haines and smiled. That lady raised her chin. 
An ashen hue came into Maria Ann Gibbs’ face. 

With great acclamation the watch was 
awarded to Lucindy Woodyard, and in congrat- 
ulating her the Rev. Eleazar Jackson held her 
hand perhaps a little longer than usual. Mrs. 
Worthington was standing near at the time. 

“If I had known it meant this,” she said to 
herself, ‘I wouldn’t have given her that twenty 
dollars.” The lady saw that she was likely to 
lose a good servant. When the meeting was out 
the preacher walked home with Lucindy. 

On the following Thursday night the Afro- 
American Sons and Daughters of Hagar gave a 
dance at their hall on Main Street. Maria Ann 
Gibbs, the shining light of Bethel Church, went, 
and she danced. Bethel heard and mourned. 

On the next Sunday she went to church. She 
walked in with Mose Jackson, who was known 
to be a sinner, and she sat with him near the 
door, in the seat of the sinners. 


271 


In Old Plantation Days 


The Rev. Eleazar Jackson went past 
Lucindy’s house and they walked to church to- 
gether. lLucindy had increased her stock of 
jewelry, not only by the watch, but by a bright 
gold ring which she wore on the third finger of 
her left hand. But if Maria Ann cared, she did 
not show it. She had found in the tents of the 
wicked what she could not get in the temple of 
the Lord. 


292 


A JUDGMENT OF PARIS. 


It is a very difficult thing at any time and in 
any place to be the acknowledged arbiter of so- 
cial affairs. But to hold this position in “Little 
Africa” demanded the maximum of independ- 
ence, discretion and bravery. I say bravery, be- 
cause the civilization of “Little Africa’ had not 
arrived at that edifying point where it took dis- 
approval gracefully and veiled its feelings. It 
was crude and primitive, and apt to resent ad- 
verse comment by an appeal to force, not of the 
persuasive but of the vindictive kind. 

It had fallen to the lot of Mr. Samuel Hatfield 
to occupy this delicate position of social judge, 
and though certain advantages and privileges ac- 
crued to him his place was in no wise a sinecure. 
There were times when his opinions on matters 
of great moment had been openly scoffed at, and 
once it had even happened when a decision of his 
had been displeasing that fleetness of foot alone 
had saved him from the violence of partisans. 
Little did it matter to the denizens of “Little 
Africa” that others might be put upon commit- 

273 


In Old Plantation Days 


tees to serve with Mr. Hatfield in judging the 
merits of waltzers or of the qualities of rival 
quartets. He was the one who invariably 
brought in the report and awarded the prize, and 
on him fell the burden of approval or disap- 
proval. 

For some months he had gone on gloriously 
unannoyed, with no one to judge, and nothing to 
passupon. In the absence of these duties, Cupid 
had stepped in and with one shaft laid him prone 
at the feet of Miss Matilda Jenkins. Of course, 
Mr. Hatfield did cast occasional glances at the 
charms of Miss Amarilla Jones, but Cupid, 
grown wise with the wisdom of the world, has 
somehow learned to tip his arrows with gold, and 
the wound of these is always fatal. 

Now, the charms of these two maidens were 
equal, their brown beauty about the same, but 
Matilda Jenkins’ father was a magnate in “‘Little 
Africa,” and so / 

On a night in autumn the devil appeared to 
certain members of the trustees’ board of Mt. 
Moriah Church, and said unto them: ‘You need 
money wherewith to run this church,” and they 
answered and said: ‘“‘Yes, good devil, we do.” 

The devil spoke again and said: ‘Give a calico 

274 


A Judgment of Paris 


festival and a prize to the woman wearing the 
prettiest calico dress.” And much elated, they 
replied: ‘‘Yea, verily.” 

Thereupon the devil, his work being done, 
vanished with a crafty smile, leaving them to 
their deliberations. 

Brother Jenkins and Brother Jones were both 
members of the ‘Boa’d,”” and when the contest 
was decided upon they looked across at each 
other with defiance shining in their eyes, because 
there was a strong rivalry between the two fami- 
lies. But there animosity apparently ended. 
Brother Jenkins dropped his eyes, for he was a 
little old man, and Brother Jones was “‘husky,”’ 
which is the word that in their community indi- 
cated rude strength. The fight, however, for 
fight it was going to be, was on. 

Within the next few days the shopkeepers of 
the town sold bolt upon bolt of calico. The buy- 
ing of this particular line of goods was so per- 
sistent that one shopkeeper, who was a strong- 
tongued, rude man, laid it at the door of certain 
advocates of industrial education and began to 
denounce any doctrines which repressed in the 
negro his love of clothes far above his pocket, 
and thereby lowered profits. 

275 


In Old Plantation Days 


As soon as Mr. Hatfield learned what was 
going on he became alarmed, for he saw more 
clearly than most people and he knew that it was 
all the invention of the devil. His good angel 
prompted him to flee from the town at once, but 
he lingered to think about it, and while he lin- 
gered the committee came upon him. ‘They 
wanted him to be chairman of the awarding com- 
mittee. He stammered and made excuses. 

“You see, gent’mens, hit’s des disaway. I 
low I got to go out o’ town fu’ my boss des ’bout 
de time dat dis hyeah’s comin’ off, an’ I wouldn’ 
lak to p’omise an’ den disap’pint you.” 

“Dat’s all right, dat’s all right,” said brother 
Jones, the spokesman; “‘I knows yo’ boss, an’ he 
teks a mighty intrus’ in Mt. Moriah. Ill see 
him an’ see ef he can’t let you go befo’ er after 
de en’tainment.” 

The sweat broke out on Mr. Hatfield’s brow 
in painful beads. 

“Oh, nevah min’, nevah min’,” he exclaimed 
hastily; ‘‘dis hyeah’s private business, an’ I 
wouldn’ lak him to know dat I done spoke ’bout 
ite 

“But we got to have you, Mr. Hatfield. You 

276 


A Judgment of Paris 


sholy mus’ speak to yo’ boss. Ef you don’t, I’ll 
have to.” 

“I speak to him, den, I speak to him. I see 
what he say.” 

“Den I reckon we kin count on yo’ suhvices ?” 

“T reckon you kin,” said the victim. 

As the committee went its way, Hatfield was 
sure that he heard a diabolical chuckle and smelt 
sulphur. 

The days that had dragged flew by and the 
poor social arbiter looked upon the nearing fes- 
tivity as upon the approach of doom. With the 
clear perception of a man who knows his world, 
Mr. Hatfield already saw that all women in the 
contest besides Matilda Jenkins and Amarilla 
Jones were but figureheads, accessories only to 
the real fight between the rival belles. So, as an 
earnest of his intention to be impartial, he ceased 
for the time his attentions to Matilda Jenkins. 
This lady, though, was also wise in her day and 
generation. She offered no protest at the appa- 
rent defection of her lover. Indeed, when her 
father squeaked his disapproval of Hatfield’s ac- 
tion, she was quick to come to his defense. 

“T reckon Mr. Hatfield knows what he’s 
about,” she said loyally. ‘You know how de 

277 


In Old Plantation Days 


people talks erroun’ hyeah. Den, ef he go an’ 
gi’ me de prize, dey des boun’ to say dat it ain’t 
’cause I winned it, but ’cause he keepin’ comp’ny 
wid me, an’ ain’t gwine to shame his own lady.” 

“Uh, huh,” said the old man; ‘‘dat hadn’t 
crost my min’ befo’.” 

In the meantime a similar council was taking 
place between Miss Amarilla Jones and her 
father. 

“‘T been noticin’,” said the paternal Jones one 
day, “‘dat Sam Hatfield don’ seem to be a-gwine 
wid Matildy Jenkins so much.” 

Amarilla modestly ducked—yes, that’s the 
word—she ducked her head, but she smiled as 
she replied: ‘“Mistah Hatfiel’ been cas’in’ 
sheep’s-eyes at me fu’ a long while now.” 

“Well, what good do dat do, less’n he up an’ 
say some’p’n?”’ 

‘“‘Nevah you min’, pap; I ’lows I un’erstan’ 
young men bettah dan you do. Ef he don’ 
mean nuffin, how come he done give up Matildy 
Jenkins des at dis junction?” 

“Hit’s all mighty quare to me.” 

‘Don’ you see he got to jedge de contes’, an’ 
he cain’t go ag’in his own lady, so he gin huh up? 

278 


The Way of a Woman 


Now, ef he gi’ me de prize, he feel puffectly free 
to ax me to ma’y him.” 

‘““Whew-ee!”’ whistled the elder, entirely over- 
come with admiration at his daughter’s sagacity; 
“you sholy has got a quick head on dem shoul- 
ders 0’ yo’n!” 

At the timeappointed the members and friends 
of Mt. Moriah assembled for the calico social. 
The church was crowded with a curiously- 
gowned throng of all conditions and colors, who 
tittered and chatted with repressed excitement. 
There was every conceivable kind of dress there 
among the contestants, from belted Mother Hub- 
bards to their aristocratic foster-sisters, Empire 
gowns. ‘There was calico in every design, from 
polka-dot to Dolly Vardens—and there was— 
anxiety. 

Promptly at ten o’clock the judges, three pom- 
pous individuals with white ribbons in their but- 
tonholes, strode in and took their seats just be- 
neath the pulpit. Then there was a short address 
by the pastor, who, being a wily man and unwill- 
ing to put his salry in jeopardy, assured his hear- 
ers that if he were one of the judges he would 
‘Gest throw up his job an’ give a prize to every 
lady in the room.” This brought forth a great 

279 


In Old Plantation Days 


laugh and somewhat relieved the nervous tension, 
but it did not make the real judges feel any better 
over their difficult task. Indeed, it quite pros- 
trated their chairman, who, in spite of his pom- 
pous entrance, sat huddled up in his chair, the 
sweat breaking out of every pore and the look 
of final despair in his eyes. 

When the pastor was through with his drivel- 
ing the organist took her place at the wheezy lit- 
tle cabinet organ and struck up a decorous-sound- 
ing tune to which the contestants marched round 
and round the room before the eyes of the be- 
wildered arbiters. They stepped jauntily off, 
marking the time perfectly to show off their airs 
and graces as well as their clothing. It was like 
nothing so much as a sort of religious cake-walk. 
And the three victims of their own popularity 
presided over the scene with a solemnity that was 
not all dignity nor yet pride of place. Five 
times the contestants marched around and then, 
at a signal, they halted and ranged themselves 
in a more or less straight line before the judges. 

After careful inspection, somewhat like that 
of prize cattle at a fair, they were dismissed, and 
three very nervous and perturbed gentlemen re- 
tired to consult. 


280 


A Judgment of Paris 


Now, these people were lovers of music, and 
at the very promise that they were to hear their 
favorite singer, Miss Otilla Bell, they usually 
became enthusiastic. But to-night Miss Bell 
came out without a greeting, and sang her best 
without attention. There were other things occu- 
pying the minds of the audience. The vocalist 
was barely done warbling disappointedly when a 
burst of applause brought a smile to her face. 
But a glance in the direction toward which every 
one was looking showed her that the acclamation 
was not for her, but for the returning judges. 

The men took their seats until the handclap- 
ping ceased, and then Mr. Hatfield, in sorrowful 
case, arose to read the committee’s report. 

“We, de committee ”” He paused and 
looked at the breathless auditors, then went on: 
“We de committee; I wish to impress dat on you. 
Dis ain’t de decision of one man, but of a com. 
mittee, an’ one of us ain’t no mo’ ’sponsible den 
de otah. We, de committee, aftah carefully 
ezaminin’ de costooms of de ladies hyeah as- 
sembled ez contestants in dis annual calico so- 
cial’? (It was not annual, but then it sounded 
well), ‘‘do fin’”” (Here he cleared his throat 
again, and repeated himself) — “do fin’ dat de 

281 


In Old Plantation Days 


mos’ strikin’ costoom was wo’ by Miss Matilda 
Jenkins, who is daihfo’ entitled to de prize.” 

A little patter of applause came from the Jen- 
kins partisans. 

“Will Miss Jenkins please come forward ?” 

Matilda sidled to the front with well-simu- 
lated modesty. 

“Miss Jenkins, we, de committee—I repeat, 
we, de committee, teks great pleasure in pus- 
sentin’ you wid de prize fu’ yo’ handsome cos- 
toom. It is dis beautiful photygraph a’bum. 
May you have nuffin’ but de faces of frien’s in it 
fu’ de reason dat you has no inimies.” 

He bowed. She bowed. There was again the 
patter of perfunctory applause, and for that 
night, at least, the incident was closed. 

Fear has second sight, and, albeit he trembled 
in his shoes, Mr. Hatfield was in nowise aston- 
ished when old man Jones called on him next 
morning at the hotel where he was employed. 

“W’y, w’y, how do, Mistah Jones? How do? 

“Howdy?” growled the old man, and went 
on without pause: ‘‘Me an’ ’Rilla wants to see 
you to-night.” 

‘“W’y, w’y, Mistah Jones,” began Hatfield, 


282 


A Judgment of Paris 


“J—I ” But the other cut him short, his 
brow gathering. 

“Me an’ ’Rilla wants to see you,” he said. 

The scared waiter paused. What should he 
do? He must decide quickly, for the man be. 
fore him looked dangerous. ‘There must be no 
trouble there, because it would mean the loss of 
his place, and the fact that he was a head waiter 
was dear to him. Better promise to go and have 
it out where the presence of Amarilla might miti- 
gate his punishment. So he stammered forth: 
‘“Oh, well, co’se, ef you an’ Miss Amarilla wants 
me, w’y, I'll come.” 

“All right;” and the irate Jones turned away. 

With trembling knees he knocked at the Jones 
door that night. The old man himself opened 
to him and received him alone in the front room. 
This was threatening. 

“T reckon you reelizes, Mistah Hatfiel’,” said 
Jones when they had seated themselves and dis- 
posed of the weather, “‘you reelizes dat I had 
some’p’n putic’lah to say er I wouldn’ ’a’ had you 
come hyeah ?” 

“JT knows you’s a man o’ bus’ness, Mistah 


Jones.” 
“T is, suh; so let’s come to bus’ness. You 


283 


In Old Plantation Days 


tought las’ night dat Tildy Jenkins was bettah 
dressed den my daughter?” 

Hatfield glanced at the glowering face and 
stammered: ‘‘Well, of.co’se, you know, Mistah 
Jones, I wasn’ de whole committee.” 

“Don’t you try to beat erbout de bush wid 
_me—answeh my question?’ cried the father an- 
grily. 

“T don’t des see how I kin answeh. You 
hyeahed de decision.” 

“Yes, I hyeahed it, an’ I want to know des 
what you t’ought.” 

“Dey was two othah men ’long wid me.” 

Jones walked over and stood.towering before 
-his trembling victim. ‘“‘I’s gwine to ax you des 
once mo’, did you t’ink Matildy’s dress any put- 
tier den my ’Rilla’s?” 

‘““No, no—suh,”’ chattered the chairman of the 
committee. 

“Den,” thundered Amarilla’s father—‘‘den 
you own up dat you showed favoh to one side?” 

“No, no—I didn’ sho’ no favoh—but—but 
de majo’ity, hit rules.” 

“Majo’ity, majo’ity! Ww? y, wen I’s in de Odd 
Fellows’ meetin’s, ef I’s one ag’in fifty, I brings 
in a mino’ity repo’t.” 

284 


Sst 


ve 


‘YS GWINE TO AX YOU DES ONCE MO’ ” 


A Judgment of Paris 


“But I don’t reckon dat ’ud ’a’ been fittin’.” 
“Fittin’, fittin’! Don’t you daih to set thaih 
an’ talk to me erbout fittin’, you nasty little rap- 


scallion, you. No, suh! You’s shamed my 


house, you’s insulted my gal, an’ 

“Oh, no, Mistah Jones, no. W’y, d’ain’t no- 
body I thinks mo’ of den I does of Miss Ama- 
rilla.” 

“Dey hain’t, eh? Well, dey’s only one way 
to prove it,’’ said Mr. Jones, sententiously; and 
then he called: ‘’ Rilla, come hyeah. I'll be right 
outside de do’,”’ he said, ‘‘an’ we'll know putty 
soon how to treat you.” 

He went out and the vivacious ’Rilla entered. 

““Good-evenin’,”’ she said. 

“‘Good-evenin,” said Hatfield in agony. ‘Oh, 
Miss ’Rilla, Miss ’Rilla,” he cried, “I hope you 
don’t think I meant any kin’ o’ disrespect to 
you?” She hung her head. 

“You know dey ain’t nobody dat I think any 
mo’ of den I do of you.” In his fervor he took 
her hand. 

‘“’This is so sudden,” she said, “‘but I thought I 
unnerstood you all along. Ef you really does 
think so much o’ me, I reckon I has to tek you 

285 


In Old Plantation Days 


even ef you was sich a naughty boy las’ night,”’ 
and she looked at him lovingly. 

He stood with staring eyes, dumbfounded. 
She had taken his apology for a proposal of mar- 
riage, and he—he dared not correct her. He 
looked toward the door meditating flight, but re- 
membered what was just behind it. 

“Dear Miss Amarilla,’ he said, ‘‘dis is mo’ 
den I expected.” 

The ponderous Mr. Jones did not bother them 
again that evening. He must have heard all. 

Matilda Jenkins first heard the news upon the 
street. She came home directly and before tak- 
ing off her hat picked up the red plush album and 
hurled it fiercely out into the yard, where it barely 
missed her father’s head. 

“What's dat?” he cried. 

“Dat?” she shrieked. “Dat™is de price’ o’ 
Mistah Hatfiel’.” 


286 


SILENT SAM’EL. 


Miss Angelina Brown was a young woman of 
many charms. Every one in Little Africa con- 
ceded that. No one who had seen her dash 
gracefully up the aisle of Mount Moriah Church 
to the collection-table with tossing head and 
rustling skirts; no one who had seen her move 
dreamily through the mazy dance at the hod- 
carriers’ picnics could fail to admit this much. 
She was a tall, fine-looking girl, with a carriage 
that indicated that she knew her own worth, as 
she did. 

What added to the glamour that hung about 
the name of the brown damsel was that she was 
the only daughter of a very solid citizen—a man 
who was known to have both “propity” and 
money. ‘There was no disputing the solidity of 
the paternal Brown, as there was no question of 
his utter simplicity and unaffectedness. He had 
imparted to Angelina a deal of his own good 
sense, and though she did not flaunt it, she did 
not, like many others born hitherside the war, 
disdain the fact that her father had learned on 

287 


In Old Plantation Days 


his master’s plantation the trade that supported 
them. 

Under these circumstances it is easy to believe 
that the young woman had many suitors. There 
were many proper and stylish young men in the 
community who were willing to take the entranc- 
ing girl for herself in spite of the incubus of her 
riches. Indeed, there were frequent offers of 
such noble sacrifices; but Angelina was a shrewd 
high priestess, and she found it better to keep 
her victims in her train than to immolate them 
on the altar of matrimony. So it happened that 
there were few evenings when a light was not 
visible in the parlor of old Isaac Brown’s house, 
and one or another of the young men of Little 
Africa did not sit there with Angelina. 

It was of a piece with the usual good sense 
that governed this house that slow-going, unpre- 
tentious Samuel Spencer—“‘Silent Sam’el,”’ they 
called him—made one of these evening sitters. 
Samuel was a steady-going, good-humored fel- 
low, and a workman under the elder Brown. 
This may have accounted for Angelina’s gra- 
ciousness to him. For even when he was in her 
company he had never a word to say for himself, 
but sat, looked at the lamp, twirled his hat, and 

288 


Silent Sam’el 


smiled. This was certainly not very entertaining 
for the girl, but then, her father had a high 
opinion of Samuel’s ability. So she would make 
conversation, and endure his smiles, until old 
Isaac would call grufly to him from the kitchen, 
and he would rise silently and go. Then An- 
gelina was free to entertain whom she pleased 
for the rest of the evening, for the two men did 
not part until near midnight. 

Once with his employer, Samuel would venture 
a remark now and then over the something like 
oily looking tea which they stirred round and 
round in their glasses. But usually he listened 
while the old man expounded his new plans and 
ideas, and every once in a while would shake his 
head in appreciation, or pat his knee in pure 
enjoyment. This happened every Wednesday, 
for that was Samuel’s particular evening. Isaac 
Brown looked forward to it with more pleasure 
than Angelina. For as he said, when Samuel’s 
silence was referred to, ‘““You needn’t say nothin’ 
to me ’bout Sam’el Spencer. I reckon he talks 
enough fu’ me; and ’sides dat, I’s allus noticed 
dat hit took a might’ sma’t man to know how to 
keep his mouth shet. Hit’s a heap easier to 
talley 

289 


In Old Plantation Days 


But there were others who were not so favor- 
ably disposed toward old man Brown’s “‘pet,”’ 
as they called him. Jim White, who was head 
waiter at the big hotel, and consequently widely 
conversant with men and things, said: ‘Huh, 
ol’ Sam go down to ol’ man Brown’s, an’ set up 
there fur an hour an’ a half ’side Miss Angelina, 
her talkin’ an’ laughin’ an’ him lookin’ like a 
bump on a log.” And this same joke, though 
often repeated, never failed to elicit a shout of 
laughter from the waiters assembled about their 
leader, and anxious to laugh at anything the 
autocrat of the dining-room might condescend to 
say. Others went so far as to twit Samuel him- 
self, but he bore all of this good-naturedly, and 
without attempting to change his manner, until 
one memorable night. 

It was on the occasion of a great rallying 
festival at Mount Moriah Church, and a large 
part of Little Africa was gathered within the 
church walls, partaking of ice cream, oyster stews 
qnd coffee. As Angelina was one of those who 
had volunteered to help serve the company she 
had denied herself the pleasure of a “gentleman 
escort’ and had gone early with her father and 
mother. 


290 


Silent Sam’ el 


Jim White and Samuel Spencer were not the 
only ones who followed her about that evening 
with amorous glances. Young men_ bought 
oyster stews if she could serve them when they 
had eaten far beyond their normal capacities. 
Old men with just teeth enough left to ache gave 
themselves neuralgia with undesired ice cream. 

Jim White had about him a crowd that he 
treated lavishly every time he could get Ange- 
lina’s eye; and Samuel himself had already ac- 
complished six oyster stews and was looking help- 
lessly at his seventh. 

There is no telling what might have happened 
had not the refreshments given out and the 
festival been forced to close. The young men 
and young women came together in twos and 
took their way home. But while Angelina stood 
counting her takings there were no less than six 
anxious beaus who stood waiting her pleasure. 

Of these Sam was the nearest, and those who 
looked on were about to conclude that even slow 
as he was he would reach her this time first and 
gain permission to take her home, when just as 
a slight sinking of her head showed that her 
counting was done, Jim White stepped up and, 
with a bow, asked for “‘the pleasure.’ She 


201 


In Old Plantation Days 


looked around for a moment and her eye fell on 
her silent admirer. She hesitated, and then, 
turning, bowed to White. 

The smile died on Sam’s face, and he stood 
watching them blankly. Not until her escort 
had found her wraps and had put her in them 
and she had said a light good-night to those who 
waited did Sam awake from his stupor. 

There were some titters as he passed out, and 
a few remarks such as, “Uh huh, Sam, you too 
slow fu’ Jim. You got to move an’ talk faster,” 
or “You sholy was cut out dat time.” 

But he went on his way, though in spite of the 
smile that came back to his lips there was a 
determined look in his eyes. On the church 
steps he paused and looked after the retreating 
forms of Angelina and his rival, then with a 
short but not angry “Huh!” he went his way 
home. 

There was in his mind the consciousness of 
something wrong, and that something was 
wrong, his far from dull wits told him, neither 
with Jim nor Angelina, but himself. He had a 
perfect right to speak to her first if he could, and 
she had a right to accept his company. He was 
bleakly just to every one concerned, and yet he 


202 


Silent Sam’el 


knew by rights he should have taken Angelina 
home, and then the thought came to him that 
he could have said nothing to her even had he 
taken her home. Jim could talk; he couldn’t. 
The knowledge of his own deficiencies over- 
whelmed him, and he went to bed that night in 
no happy frame of mind. 

For a long while he did not sleep, but lay 
thinking about Angelina. It was nearly morn- 
ing when he got suddenly out of bed and began 
dancing a breakdown in his bare feet, whisper- 
ing to himself, “By gum, that’s it!” 

The landlady knocked on the wall to know 
what was the matter. He replied that he had 
been attacked with cramp in his feet, but was 
better now, and so subsided. 

From now on a change took place in Samuel’s 
manner of proceeding. ‘The first thing that 
marked this change was his unexpected appear- 
ance in the Brown parlor on the next Monday. 
Angelina was entertaining another caller, but she 
received him pleasantly and, so far as an occa- 
sional reference to him would suffice, drew him 
’ into the conversation. However, he did not stay 
long, and so his hostess concluded that he had 
just been passing and had casually dropped in. 

293 


In Old Plantation Days 


What was her surprise when promptly at the 
same hour on the next night Samuel again came 
smiling in and settled himself to listen to the 
talk of that night’s caller. Angelina was as- 
tounded. What did he mean? Had he begun 
to spy upon her and her company. Wednesday 
was his acknowledged night, and of course he 
had a right to come, but when he turned up on 
Thursday she openly tossed her head and treated 
him with marked coldness. The young man who 
had the pleasure of sitting out the hours on 
Thursday brought her a bunch of flowers. Sam- 
uel was evidently taking lessons, for on Friday 
night he appeared with a wondrous bouquet. 

For one whole week, including Sunday, he 
was by the side of his divinity some part of 
every evening. The other young men were pro- 
voked. Angelina was annoyed, but less seriously 
than she might have been when she found that 
Samuel had the consideration never to stay long. 
The most joyful one of all concerned was old 
Isaac Brown himself. 

‘When Sam’el sets out a cou’tin’ he does it jes’ 
like he does evahthing else. Huh, de way he sot 
his cap fu’ Angie is a caution.” 

But the truth of it was, Samuel Spencer was 

204, 


Silent Sam’el 


deeper than those who knew him could fathom. 
His week’s visit to Angelina had not been with- 
out reason or result, and its object might have 
been discovered as he mumbled to himself on the 
last night of his constant attendance: ‘‘Well, I’ve 
heard ’em all talk, but I reckon that little Scott 
fellow that comes on Friday night’s about the 
slickest of the lot. He’ll have to do my talkin’ 
fur me.’ He chuckled a little, and shook his 
head solemnly, “Ef somebody else got to speak 
far me,” he added, “I do’ want nothin’ but the 
best talent.” 

The next week it appeared that Samuel’s sud- 
den passion must have burned itself out as sud- 
denly as it had appeared, for not even Wednes- 
day night saw his face in the Brown parlor. 
Then was Angelina uneasy, for she thought she 
had offended him; and she didn’t want to do 
that, for he was her father’s friend, anyway, 
even if he was nothing to her, and her father’s— 
oh, well, her father’s friend deserved respect. So 
she instructed the elder Brown to inquire the 
reason for the young man’s sudden defection, and 
she was greatly soothed, even though she did not 
care for him, when her parent brought back the 

205 


In Old Plantation Days 


message that ‘‘Sam’el was all right, an’ ’ud be 
Trout 

It was not until Friday night that he came 
and, contrary to his usual custom, he went di- 
rectly back into the kitchen, where he spent the 
hours with the old man. Angelina was piqued, 
and she tossed her head as he came in just as Mr. 
Scott was leaving. He sat down and smiled at 
her for a little while, and then he said abruptly: 

“T mean all he said.” 

She gazed at him in astonishment. 

“T mean all he said,” he repeated, and soon 
after bade her good-night. 

Friday night after Friday night he came at 
one hour or another, and after Scott had poured 
out his heart to Angelina Samuel merely whis- 
pered in her ear that he meant all that. Now 
this was very shrewd of Samuel, for Mr. Scott 
was a very eloquent and fluent talker, and Ange- 
lina thought that if Samuel meant all the other 
said he must mean a good deal. 

One night, with burning words, Scott asked 
the momentous question. Samuel was in the 
kitchen with Isaac Brown at the time his rival 
was making his impassioned plea. Angelina 
bade her wooer to wait until she had time to 

206 


Silent Sam’ el 


and when he had gone she awaited the coming 
of Samuel. 

He came in smiling, as usual. 

“‘T mean all he said,”’ he asserted. 

“How do you know, you do? You do’ know 
what he said,” retorted Angelina. 

“T mean all he said,” repeated Sam. 

“La, Mr. Spencer, you are the beatenes’ man! 
If you mean all he said, why don’t you say it 
yo’se’f ?” 

“T can’t,” said Sam simply. 

“Well, Mr. Scott surely has said enough to- 
night.” 

“IT mean all he said.” 

“Y’m mighty ’fraid youll want to back out 
when you hear it.” 

“T mean all he said,” and Sam laid an em- 
phasis on the “‘all.”’, He was slowly working his 
‘way toward Angelina. His wits began to tell 
him what Scott had said. 

“You ain’t never ast me what he said.” 

“What py 

“Oh, I can’t tell you; don’t you know ?” 

By this time he had reached her and put his 
arm around her trim waist. 

“T mean all he said.” 

207 


In Old Plantation Days 


“Well, then, I says yes to you fur what you 
means, even if you won't say it,’ and Angelina 
ducked her head on his breast. 

Sam’s eyes shone, and it was a good deal later 
before he left that night. As he stood at the 
gate he suddenly broke his silence and said, “‘I 
thought Scott was nevah goin’ to git to the ques- 
tion.” 


208 


THE WAY OF A WOMAN. 


Any man who has ever wooed in earnest, or 
thought so, knows how hard it is to have his 
suit repulsed time and time again. However the 
capricious one may smile at times, one “‘no”’ up- 
sets the memory of many days of smiles. 

The structure of Gabe Harris’ hopes had 
fallen so often that he had begun to build it over 
again listlessly and mechanically enough, until 
one momentous day, when it seemed fallen for 
good. 

He had come by, as usual, upon his cart that 
evening after work, and paused, as was his wont, 
for a chat with his desired one, Anna Maria 
Moore. He had been hard at work all day haul- 
ing from the clay-pits, and so was not a thing of 
beauty as to clothes. But if Anna Maria loved 
him—and he believed she did—love was blind, 
which left him all right in his own eyes and hers. 

Perhaps he was right even thus far, and all 
would have gone well had not the plump, brown 
beauty of the girl overcome him as he stood 
chatting with her. 

The realization of her charms, of her desir- 

299 


In Old Plantation Days 


ableness, swept over him with a rush of emotion. 
Instinctively he held out his arms to her. They 
were in the front yard, too. ‘‘W’en—w’en 
you gwine ma’y me, honey? ‘Tell me.” 

Anna Maria froze at once. She grew as rigid 
as the seams in her newly starched calico. 

‘W’y—w’y, what’s de mattah, Anna Maria?” 
stammered the discomfited Gabe. 

‘““*Scuse me, Mistah Ha’is,” said the lady, 
with dignity, “but I’s not in de habit ob bein’ 
spoke to in dat mannah.” 

“W’y, what’s I done, Anna Maria?” 

‘““What’s you done, sah? What’s you done? 
W’y you’s scandalized me ’fo’ de eyes ob de 
whole neighbo’hood,” and the calico swished it- 
self as well as its stifiness would allow into the 
house. 

Gabe scratched his head. ‘Well, I’ll be dad- 
burned!” he ejaculated. 

Just then Uncle Ike, Anna Maria’s father, 
came up. He was Gabe’s friend and ally, and 
the young fellow’s bewilderment was not lost 
upon him. 

‘““What’s de mattah, Brothah Gabe?” he ques- 
tioned. 

“W’y, Unc’ Ike, I done axed Anna Maria to 


300 


The Way of a Woman 


ma’y, an’ she say I’s insulted an’ scandalized de 
neighbo’hood. Huccome dat?” 

‘“Tsch, tsch, tsch, Brothah Gabe; you sholy 
doesn’t knew de pherlosophy ob oomankin’.” 

‘IT reckon I ain’t up on dat, Unc’ Ike; seems I 
ain’ had de spe’ence dat hab fell to yo’ lot.” 

The present was Uncle Ike’s fourth matrimo- 
nial venture, and he was supposed to know many 
things. He went on: “Now, Brothah Gabe, in 
co’tin’ a ooman, less’n she’s a widdah ooman, 
dey’s th’ee t’ings you got to do; you got to satisfy 
huh soul, you got to chawm huh yeah, an’ you 
got to please huh eye. *Tain’t no use doin’ one 
ner tothah less’n you does all—dat is, I say, per- 
vided it ain’t a widdah lady; dey bein’ easiah to 
please an’ mo’ unnerstannin’ laik. Well, you 
come hyeah, aftah yo’ day’s wo’k, an’ you talk 
to Anna Maria. She know you been a’wo’kin’, 
an’ll mak’ a good pervider; dat satisfy huh soul.” 

“Yes, suh; she smile w’en I was a-talkin’ to 
huh, an’ dat what mak me fu’git myse’f.” 

“Uh-huh,” said the old man, wagging his 
head sagely and stroking the straggling beard 
upon his chin, “uh-huh, dat mean dat you chawm 
huh yeah; but hol’ on, hol’ on dey’s one mo’ ting. 
How in de name ob common sense you spec’ to 


301 


In Old Plantation Days 


please huh eye a-comin’ hyeah in sich togs ez 
deze? Ki yi, now you see.” 

Again Gabe had recourse to his signal of per- 
plexity, and woolly head and grimy nails came 
together in a half-hearted scratch. 

‘Unc’ Ike, you sholy hab opened my eyes,” 
he said, as he went slowly out to his cart. 

On the morrow he arrayed himself in his best, 
and hitching his mare to a buggy not yet too rick- 
ety to awe some of his less prosperous neigh- 
bors, started toward the home of his inamorata. 
Old Suke, accustomed to nothing lighter than her 
cart on workdays, first set her ears doubtfully at 
the unaccustomed vacation, and then, seeming to 
realize that it was really a vacation, a gala-day, 
she tossed her head and stepped out bravely. 

In the heart of Gabe Harris a similar exulta- 
tion was present. What now would check him 
in his quest of the fair one? He had fulfilled all 
the requirements laid down by Uncle Ike, and 
Uncle Ike knew. He had already satisfied her 
soul; he had done his duty as to “‘chawmin’ her 
yeah,” now he went forth a potential conqueror 
for the last great feat—the pleasing of her eyes. 
Gone were the marks and the memory of the 
clay-pits, gone was the ashiness of dust from his 

302 


The Way of a Woman 


hardened hands. His self-abashing cap was re- 
placed by an agressive “‘stiff hat,” while his black 
coat and waistcoat, with drab trousers, completed 
an invincible make-up. 

It was an autumn day, the year was sighing to- 
ward its close, but there was a golden touch in 
the haze that overhung the mean streets where 
he passed, and somewhere up in a balsam poplar 
a bird would persist in singing, and something 
in Gabe’s heart kept answering, answering, as he 
alighted and hitched Suke before Anna Maria’s 
gate. 

A little later she came out arrayed in all her 
glory. She passed through the gate which the 
smiling Gabe held open for her, and stepped 
lightly into the buggy. Suke turned one inquisi- 
tive glance over her shoulder, and then, winking 
slowly to herself, consented to be unhitched and 
to jog leisurely toward the country roads. What 
Gabe said to Anna Maria and what Anna Maria 
said to Gabe on that drive is not recorded. But 
it is evident that the lover had been preparing 
his lady for something momentous, for upon re- 
turning late that afternoon he paused as he 
helped her alight, and whispered softly: “I got 
sompin’ mo’ to say to you.” 

303 


In Old Plantation Days 


‘As they entered the house, the smell of baking 
biscuits and of frying pork assailed their nostrils. 
Aunt Hannah Moore also had recognized this as 
a gala-day, and was putting herself out to lay 
such a feast for her daughter’s suitor as he should 
remember for many a day to come. Gabe sat 
down in the spick-and-span front room. 

““Ma’s biscuits cert’n’y does smell scan’lous,” 
Anna Maria commented, agreeably. 

Gabe’s mind was too full of his mission to heed 
the remark. The momentous second had arrived 
—the second that held the fruition of all his am- 
bitions, all his dreams. He plumped down on 
his knees at her feet. ‘‘Oh, Anna Maria,” he 
cried, ‘“Anna Maria, ain’t you gwine hab me 
now?” 

Anna Maria turned on him a look full of star- 
tled surprise, which soon turned to anger and 
disdain. ‘Look hyeah, Gabe,”’ she said, wrath- 
fully, ‘“‘what’s de mattah wid you? Is you done 
tuk leab ob yo’ senses? Ain’t you got no ’spect 
fo’ a lady’s feelin’s? NHeah I’s tiahed and hon- 
gry, an’ you come ’roun talkin’ sich foolishness 
ez dat. No, I ain’t gwine hab you. Git up f’om 
daih, an’ ac’ sensible. I’s hongry, I is.” 

Gabe got up sheepishly, dusting his knees. 

304 


The Way of a Woman 


Anna Maria turned to the window. He took his 
hat, and let himself out of the door. 

‘“Heyo, Brothah Gabe, wha you gwine? You 
ain’t gwine ’way fo’ suppah, am you? We got 
som monstous fine middlin’ daih fryin’ speshly 
fo’ you,” was the greeting from Anna Maria’s 
father. 

“D’you want to buy Suke? I’s gwine ’way 
f’om hyeah.” 

““What’s de mattah’d you ?” was the old man’s 
quick question. 

“T’s done filled all de quirements you tol’ me, 
an’ axed Anna Maria ’gain, an’ she won’t hab 
me, an’ I’s gwine ’way.” 

“No, y’ain’t. Set down.” 

Gabe seated himself beside his adviser. 

““W’en you ax Anna Maria?” 

‘Jes’ now.” 

“Oomph, oomph, oomph,”’ said the old man, 
reflectively; and he went on: ‘‘Gabe, fo’ a ha’d- 
wo’kin, money-savin’, long-haided man you sholy 
has got less sense dan anybody I know.” 

““What’s I done now?” said Gabe, disconso- 
lately. ‘“‘Ain’t I filled all de ’quirements? Ain’t 
I satisfied huh soul? Aain’t I chawmed huh 

305 


In Old Plantation Days 


yeah? Ain’t I pleased huh eye? Now wha’ mo’ 
Ohl, tain & nowuse | 

“Hol on, hol’ on, I say; you done all dese 
t’ings. You’s satisfied huh soul, you’s chawmed 
huh yeah, you’s pleased huh eye, an’ she’s jes 
ready fo’ you, but Lawd a’ massy ’pon me, ain’t 
you got mo’ sense dan to pop de question to a 
lady w’en she hungry? Gabe, you got lots to 
Parn.” 

‘““*Tain’t no use, Unc’ Ike; ef she eat suppah 
an’ git satisfied, den she ain’t gwine need me.” 

“You set down an’ wait till aftah suppah, I 
say.” 

Just then the call for supper came, and Gabe 
went in with the black Solomon. During the 
blessing Anna Maria was cold and distant, but 
when the first biscuit was passed to her her face 
brightened. She half smiled as she broke it open 
and filled its hot interior with rich yellow butter. 
The smile was on full force when she had tasted 
the brown crisp ‘“‘middlin’,” and by the time she 
had the ‘“‘jackets” off two steaming potatoes her 
face was beaming. 

With wonder and joy Gabe watched the meta- 
morphosis take place, and Uncle Ike had con- 

306 


The Way of a Woman 


stantly to keep nudging or kicking him under the 
table to keep him from betraying himself. 

When the supper was done, and it went on to 
a merry ending, Aunt Hannah refused Anna 
Maria’s help with mock fierceness, and Uncle Ike 
went out on the porch to smoke. Only the front 
room was left for Anna Maria and eae and 
thither they went. 

Gabe lingered for awhile on the brink, and 
then plunged in: “Anna Maria, I’s failed, an’ 
failed, an’ I’s waited an’ waited. Is you—is you 
—will you have me now?” 

‘La, Gabe Ha’is, you is de beatenes’!”’ But 
her hand slipped into his. 

“Ts you gwine have me, Anna Maria?” he re- 
peated. 

“T reckon J’ll have to,” she said. 

Out on the porch Uncle Ike waited long in the 
silence; then he said: ‘“‘Well, dat’s a moughty 
good sign, but it sholy time fu’ it. Oomph, 
oomph, oomph, ’oomen an’ colts, an’ which is de 
wus, I don’ know.” 


307 


ST. MARY’ ‘a pose a LIBRARY 


dun | 


Sie ae 
: eS 


ae 


SE 


